FN Clarivate Analytics Web of Science
VR 1.0
PT J
AU Liang, C
   Zeng, B
   Lei, YY
   Wen, Z
   Zhang, JY
AF Liang, Chen
   Zeng, Bo
   Lei, Yueyi
   Wen, Zhu
   Zhang, Jiayi
TI Enhancing reliability of integrated electricity-water systems with data
   centers via decentralized robust planning considering decision-dependent
   uncertainties
DE Internet data center; Integrated electricity-water system; Robust
   optimization; Decision-dependent uncertainty; Coordination; Reliability
   enhancement
ID WIND POWER; CONVERGENCE
AB The rapid expansion of Internet Data Centers (IDCs) has significantly intensified the operational pressure on urban electricity and water infrastructures, necessitating the development of cross-system collaborative planning mechanisms to enhance overall system reliability. This paper proposes a tri-level robust planning framework for the coordinated optimization of IDCs and the integrated electricity-water system (IEWS) under multiple uncertainties. The upper-level model optimizes IDC resource deployment and IEWS infrastructure reinforcement investments. The middle-level model constructs decision-dependent uncertainty (DDU) and decisionindependent uncertainty (DIU) sets to jointly capture the endogenous and exogenous coupling mechanisms among load fluctuations, power grid failure scenarios, and renewable energy outputs. The lower-level model addresses system operation scheduling under worst-case disturbances to ensure operational safety and costeffectiveness. To enhance tractability and convergence efficiency, a hybrid solution approach is developed by integrating Parametric Column-and-Constraint Generation (PC&CG), Analytical Target Cascading (ATC), and Alternating Optimization Process (AOP), enabling synchronized decentralized solving across heterogeneous stakeholders. Case studies demonstrate that the proposed framework significantly improves system reliability under multiple disturbance scenarios, reducing electricity and water load shedding rates from 4.31% to 1.29% and from 6.33% to 2.15%, respectively, while enhancing system adaptability and robustness. This work provides a scalable and privacy-preserving theoretical foundation and methodological tool for robust multi-agent coplanning in integrated IDC-IEWS environments.
UT WOS:001708113800003
ER

PT J
AU Stuhlmacher, A
   Guikema, S
   Mathieu, JL
AF Stuhlmacher, Anna
   Guikema, Seth
   Mathieu, Johanna L.
TI Assessing Power and Water Network Resilience When Water Pumps Provide
   Frequency Regulation
DE Frequency control; Distribution networks; Power systems; Hazards; Water
   resources; Power system reliability; Hydraulic systems; Costs; Water
   pumps; Extreme weather; frequency regulation; power distribution
   network; resilience; water network; water network
AB Pumps in drinking water distribution networks can be operated as flexible, controllable loads to help support the electric power grid, e.g., by providing frequency regulation. However, departures from conventional water network operation should not degrade the ability of the water and power networks to respond to high impact low frequency events. In this paper, we evaluate the resilience of water and power distribution networks surrounding a storm-induced power outage given an optimal pumping strategy that minimizes electricity costs and is capable of offering frequency regulation. The water network resilience under optimal water pumping strategies is compared with its resilience under a conventional rule-based water pumping strategy. In a case study, we consider an extreme wind event that causes power outages in the power distribution network impacting pumps in the water network. We found that the optimal control strategies are significantly less expensive than the traditional rule-based strategy but the water tanks levels are lower within the optimal pumping strategies, potentially reducing water service availability during long power outages. However, we also observed that the tank levels remain further from their limits when the optimal pumping strategy provides frequency regulation in addition to minimizing electricity costs, resulting in improved resilience metrics.
UT WOS:001560302400011
ER

PT J
AU Rodriguez-Garcia, L
   Parvania, M
   Hosseini, MM
   Mosier, T
AF Rodriguez-Garcia, Luis
   Parvania, Masood
   Hosseini, Mohammad Mehdi
   Mosier, Thomas
TI Resilience Analytics for Interdependent Power and Water Distribution
   Systems
DE Resilience; Measurement; Power system reliability; Distributed power
   generation; Partial discharges; Degradation; Analytical models;
   Water-power nexus; water distribution system; power distribution system;
   resilience metric; outage analysis
ID MICROGRIDS; OPERATION; FRAMEWORK; METRICS
AB The occurrence of large-scale outages in power distribution systems (PDSs) caused, for instance, by extreme weather events has raised concerns on the cascading impact of the power outages on the resilience of other critical infrastructures, including water distribution systems (WDSs), whose healthy operation highly relies on the availability of power from PDSs. This paper proposes an analytics model for quantifying the interdependence between the resilience of power and water distribution systems. The proposed model first performs spatio-temporal outage analysis on the PDS and WDS to determine the PDS power serving capability and the resulting cascading impact on the WDS water serving capability during the occurrence of disruptions. The resilience interdependence is then determined by a proposed set of six metrics calculated using the power and water serving capability profiles, which trace and quantify the cascading impacts of power outages in the operation of WDSs during the degradation and recovery stages. The proposed analytics model is implemented on the IEEE 33-bus power distribution system supplying power for pumping stations of a 15-node test WDS, considering multiple cases of water storage capacity, single and multiple outage scenarios, and availability of distributed generation. The numerical results demonstrate that the proposed metrics track the temporal and spatial interdependence between the resilience of power and water distribution systems, providing a mechanism to identify weak spots, and assess options to enhance the resilience of the critical water infrastructure.
UT WOS:000871076600012
ER

PT J
AU Liu, Y
   Li, CY
   Tang, JY
   Yao, YM
   Xie, KG
   Hu, B
   Shao, CZ
   Wu, T
AF Liu, Yang
   Li, Chunyan
   Tang, Jiyuan
   Yao, Yiming
   Xie, Kaigui
   Hu, Bo
   Shao, Changzheng
   Wu, Tao
TI Reliability Evaluation of Integrated Electricity-Water System Based on
   Multi-State Models of Equipment in Water System
DE integrated electricity-water system; Markov chain Monte Carlo;
   reliability evaluation; RO desalination plant; water system
AB The power system and the water system are two important infrastructures of human society that are closely related and interdependent. However, the reliability problems of the power system and water system are becoming more and more prominent. To better reveal the impact of the complex coupling relationship between the power system and the water system on the reliability of the Integrated Electricity-Water System (IEWS), this paper investigates a reliability evaluation method of the IEWS based on multi-state models of equipment in the water system. Firstly, a multi-state reliability model is established based on the failure mechanism of equipment in the water system, such as pipes and Reverse Osmosis (RO) desalination plants. Secondly, combined with the multi-state model of equipment in the water system and the Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) method, the IEWS reliability evaluation method is established. Finally, two IEWSs with different scales are simulated to verify the validity and adaptability of the proposed model.
UT WOS:001442336600001
ER

PT J
AU Montoya-Rincon, JP
   Mejia-Manrique, SA
   Azad, S
   Ghandehari, M
   Harmsen, EW
   Khanbilvardi, R
   Gonzalez-Cruz, JE
AF Montoya-Rincon, Juan P.
   Mejia-Manrique, Said A.
   Azad, Shams
   Ghandehari, Masoud
   Harmsen, Eric W.
   Khanbilvardi, Reza
   Gonzalez-Cruz, Jorge E.
TI A socio-technical approach for the assessment of critical infrastructure
   system vulnerability in extreme weather events
ID SOCIAL VULNERABILITY; POWER; WATER; HAZARDS; SANDY
AB The recurrence of extreme weather events has led to the development of methods for assessing the vulnerability and interdependencies of physical and human systems. A case example is Hurricane Maria (H-Maria), where Puerto Rico experienced damage to 80% of its electrical power system, leading to massive disruptions of essential services for months. Here we evaluate the effectiveness of various interventions aimed at reducing vulnerability by considering power and water infrastructure and respective water-power dependencies while also considering the social vulnerability of affected communities associated with the physical infrastructure upgrades. On the basis of the current infrastructure configuration, we found that all communities suffered enormously from power and water outages. As one upgrade option, we show that incorporating regional energy grids would reduce outages in an H-Maria scenario. However, a large portion of disadvantaged communities will face service disruption under this option. In contrast, hardening transmission lines, as the second option, would improve service delivery and, most importantly, provide uninterrupted service to the higher portion of the vulnerable population.
   Extreme weather events can have catastrophic impacts on physical systems such as power and water infrastructure. This study offers an approach to testing interventions to reduce the vulnerability of such systems to weather events and applies it to the case of Hurricane Maria to assess service-level and social outcomes.
UT WOS:001040238700001
ER

PT J
AU Atat, R
   Ismail, M
   Serpedin, E
AF Atat, Rachad
   Ismail, Muhammad
   Serpedin, Erchin
TI Joint Cascade Vulnerability Assessment of Interdependent Power-Water
   Infrastructures
DE Cascading failure; interdependent infrastructures; power grid;
   vulnerability; water distribution system (WDS)
ID CYBER-PHYSICAL ATTACKS; DATA INJECTION ATTACKS; DISTRIBUTION-SYSTEMS;
   RESILIENCE; OPERATION; NETWORKS; MODEL
AB The joint operation and coordination of power and water infrastructures have made them more vulnerable than before to cyber-physical attacks. This is because each system relies on the other to provide its services. Such a mutual dependence increases the risk of large-scale cascading failures. Therefore, it becomes of utmost importance to analyze the vulnerability of interdependent power-water infrastructures. To accurately quantify the overall damage due to cascading failure propagation, the vulnerability assessment should consider not only the topological features but also the power dynamics and the hydraulic features. Existing works fail to identify the combination of nodes that present the greatest damage. To fill up this gap, this article proposes and examines a low-complexity vulnerability assessment strategy based on the most critical nodes, which maximizes the overall damage. Experiments are conducted on two different power-water systems. It is shown that the proposed strategy identifies the most vulnerable nodes that cause a high damage impact from either or both systems, but with a much lower computational time compared to the one that selects the target nodes based on how much damage they inflict upon the system. A visual assessment of the physical disturbances under the most vulnerable nodes is presented.
UT WOS:001078344600001
ER

PT J
AU Toba, AL
   Boire, L
   McJunkin, T
AF Toba, Ange-Lionel
   Boire, Liam
   McJunkin, Timothy
TI Integrated Water-Power System Resilience Analysis in a Southeastern
   Idaho Irrigation District: Minidoka Case Study
DE agriculture; critical infrastructure; energy-water nexus; multi-agent
   system modeling
ID OPTIMIZATION FRAMEWORK; YIELD RESPONSE; ENERGY; NEXUS; CLIMATE;
   GENERATION; EFFICIENCY; DEMAND; LAND; TOOL
AB This study investigates the joint water-power system resilience of an irrigation district in southeastern Idaho. Irrigation districts face difficulties in the delivery of water to farmers under drought conditions, during equipment failures, or unplanned infrastructure disruptions. The resilience of interconnected water and power systems can be better analyzed and understood through an integrated approach, using a model that connects the dependencies between the two halves of the system. Using a multi-agent system model capturing both water and power system components, as well as their linkages, we capture the interdependencies of these systems and highlight opportunities for improvement when faced with disruptions. Through simulation scenarios, we examine the system resilience using system performance, quantified as the percentage of met demand of the power and water system, when subjected to drought water year, an unforeseen water demand increase, power outage and dam failure. Scenario results indicate that the effects of low flow years are mostly felt in the power system; unexpected increases in water demand marginally impact irrigation system performance; dams and pumps present vulnerabilities of the system, causing substantial unmet demand during disruptions. Noting the interdependencies between the water-power system halves while leveraging an integrated simulation allows for an insightful analysis of the system impacts during disruptions.
UT WOS:000755788700001
ER

PT J
AU Yang, YS
   Li, ZM
   Mandapaka, PV
   Lo, EYM
AF Yang, Yesen
   Li, Zhengmao
   V. Mandapaka, Pradeep
   Lo, Edmond Y. M.
TI Risk-averse restoration of coupled power and water systems with small
   pumped-hydro storage and stochastic rooftop renewables
DE Restoration; Interdependency; Critical infrastructure; Optimization
   model; Power-water systems; Risk-averse stochastic programming
ID OPTIMIZATION; SIMULATION; OPERATION
AB Modern coupled power and water (CPW) systems exhibit increasing integration and interdependence, which challenges system performance to disasters and makes service restoration complex during post-disruption. Meanwhile, new technologies, such as small pumped-hydro storage (PHS) and rooftop renewables, are being widely installed and further deepen the interdependencies. To capture these features and improve overall performance, this paper proposes a coordinated restoration framework for a CPW system to respond to disruptions. The proposed CPW model comprises physical networks and mechanisms, considering available units, such as water desalination/treatment plants, pump stations and small PHS, in the water system, and rooftop renewables, distributed generators, in power system. The interdependencies are modeled through component-wise connections and consumer behavior, then grouped into three phases: production, distribution, and consumption. Aggregate service loss with respect to different consumer loads and time periods, is chosen as performance metric and to be minimized using network reconfiguration, energy/water dispatching, load curtailment, and operation management of components. A two-stage risk-averse stochastic programming is applied for reliable restoration and manage risks, to tackle the uncertainties in renewable power generations and water/power demands that affect method effectiveness. Finally, the method is implemented on a modified 33-bus/25-node CPW system, and the results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed restoration framework.
UT WOS:000957255400001
ER

PT J
AU Roni, MS
   Mosier, T
   Feinberg, TD
   McJunkin, T
   Toba, AL
   Boire, LD
   Rodriguez-Garcia, L
   Majidi, M
   Parvania, M
AF Roni, Mohammad S.
   Mosier, Thomas
   Feinberg, Tzvi D.
   McJunkin, Timothy
   Toba, Ange-Lionel
   Boire, Liam D.
   Rodriguez-Garcia, Luis
   Majidi, Majid
   Parvania, Masood
TI Integrated water-power system resiliency quantification, challenge and
   opportunity
DE Resiliency; Irrigation; Integrated water-power system; Optimization
ID FOOD-ENERGY NEXUS; CLIMATE-CHANGE; PUMPED-STORAGE; OPTIMIZATION MODEL;
   DECISION-MAKING; REGIONAL WATER; CHANGE IMPACTS; HYDROPOWER;
   VULNERABILITY; GENERATION
AB Resiliency has been studied in the power and water systems separately. Often the resiliency study is not so comprehensive as to understand interdependent, integrated water and power systems. This research outlines the relevant factors necessary to understand and advance quantification of such integrated systems. It also presents a review of integrated water-power systems resiliency. Based on literature survey and identification of challenges, the authors present quantification and computational steps needed to understand integrated water-power systems resiliency. A conceptual framework is proposed to quantify integrated water-power system resiliency. Finally, the authors presented an opportunity for improved water and power system resilience.
UT WOS:000743261300010
ER

PT C
AU Chen, YH
   Zhang, L
   Ren, JG
   Jin, L
AF Chen, Yunhan
   Zhang, Li
   Ren, Juguang
   Jin, Li
GP IEEE
TI An Optimal Method for Locating and Sizing Distributed Generations
   Considering Critical Infrastructures Interconnection for Urban
   Distribution Network Restoration
DE distributed generations with renewable energy sources; locating and
   sizing; urban distribution network restoration; water-electricity
   coupling
AB The urban distribution network will separated from the large-scale centralized power system when disasters occur, causing a series of internal random faults and resulting in serious shortage of energy supply. Distributed Generations (DGs) with renewable energy is significant to restore critical loads and the energy supplying of important interconnected infrastructures to maintain the operation of cities. This paper proposes an optimization method for locating and sizing DGs: (1) Monte Carlo simulation to set faulted scenarios of the urban distribution network after disasters. (2) A mixed integer second-order cone program (MISOCP) is proposed to minimize the number and capacity of DGs, considering the constraints of DGs, water supply network, distribution network and water-electricity coupling relationship. (3) Representative planning solutions are selected from the aspects of power supply reliability, DGs configuration economy, and faulted lines severity. (4) It is proved that the optimization method is effective, multiple-selectivity and forward-looking for the loads restoration and emergency response after disasters, so as to promote the sustainable development of cities with DGs' low-carbon and flexibility.
UT WOS:000899805800233
ER

PT J
AU Wan, HY
   Liu, WX
   Shi, QX
   Zhu, R
   Zhang, XC
   Zhao, J
AF Wan, Haiyang
   Liu, Wenxia
   Shi, Qingxin
   Zhu, Ran
   Zhang, Xiaochen
   Zhao, Jin
TI Real-Time Service Restoration of Coupled Power-Water Systems Considering
   the Spatio-Temporal Cascading Failure
DE Power system protection; Power system faults; Maintenance engineering;
   Indexes; Contingency management; Transient analysis; Computational
   modeling; Real-time systems; Decision making; Pipelines; Service
   restoration; coupled power-water systems; water flow dynamics; water
   transfer delays; cascading failures; deep reinforcement learning
ID ALLOCATION
AB The interdependence between power distribution systems (PDS) and water distribution systems (WDS) plays a critical role in the coupled power-water systems (CPWSs) service restoration. However, the transient water flow dynamics in WDS were omitted in existing studies, leading to impractical restoration plans. To address this gap, this article proposes a decision-making method for the CPWSs service restoration considering the spatio-temporal cascading failure. By integrating a WDS transient hydraulic model into the CPWSs service restoration optimization, this method enables dynamic adjustments of repair crew dispatch and network reconfiguration plans to adapt to water flow dynamics. Moreover, to enable real-time and adaptive decision-making for unexpected contingencies in extreme events, an offline deep reinforcement learning (DRL) approach is introduced. By pre-training on a dataset collected from the proposed stochastic contingencies simulations, this method can remarkably mitigate the computational burden associated with WDS transient flow analysis, and eliminate the need for frequent agent-environment interactions. Case studies on a modified 14-bus/15-node CPWS and a 118-bus/71-node CPWS are conducted to demonstrate the effectiveness and robustness of the proposed method.
UT WOS:001650790300011
ER

PT C
AU Falco, GJ
   Webb, WR
AF Falco, Gregory J.
   Webb, Wm. Randolf
BE Chong, WO
   Chang, J
   Parrish, K
   Berardi, U
TI Water Microgrids: The Future of Water Infrastructure Resilience
DE water; resilience; resiliency; infrastructure; microgrids; disaster
   management; public infrastructure; city risk; water microgrids; water
   micronets; decentralized water system; unified micro-utility framework
AB Microgrids have recently come into vogue as a potential solution to address the increasing number of power outages caused by extreme weather events that impact our cities and communities. Such events - often precipitated by increasing global temperatures and climate change - have repercussions that expand beyond damages to a city's electric infrastructure. Water infrastructure is similarly vulnerable to extreme weather events, resulting in significant impacts to clean water distribution, wastewater treatment, and stormwater management. Given this similarity, and other value drivers to be outlined, this paper proposes leveraging concepts behind electricity microgrids to develop a unified framework for microgrid application to promote water resilience in the face of our changing climate.
   Many parallels can be drawn between the electric grid and water infrastructure considering both are utilities that generate, store, and distribute an essential product that has been identified as a basic human right. Also similar to the electric grid, water infrastructure is aged and costly to redevelop. For both industries, microgrids are a potential solution that addresses aged infrastructure concerns while also being potentially more cost effective. In addition, by leveraging legacy infrastructural components while developing a new system within the system, microgrids provide redundancy, fortify vulnerabilities and secure the resource supply chain. This paper will investigate parallel components of electric and water infrastructure to provide a vision for future resilient water microgrids. (C) 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license.
UT WOS:000380430700008
ER

PT J
AU Banhidarah, AK
   Al-Sumaiti, AS
   Wescoat, JL 
   Nguyen, HT
AF Banhidarah, Abdullah Khamis
   Al-Sumaiti, Ameena Saad
   Wescoat, James L., Jr.
   Nguyen, Hoach The
TI Electricity-water usage for sustainable development: An analysis of
   United Arab Emirates farms
DE Farm survey; Multiple regression analysis; Rural electricity use; Rural
   water use; United Arab Emirates
ID ECONOMIC-GROWTH; ENERGY NEXUS; FINANCIAL DEVELOPMENT; CONSUMPTION
   BEHAVIOR; ABU-DHABI; URBANIZATION; MANAGEMENT; COUNTRIES; PATTERNS;
   DEMAND
AB Electricity and water consumption play a crucial role in the sustainable development of desert regions. In countries with arid climates like the United Arab Emirates (UAE), water-energy efficiency and conservation in agriculture are critical issues. This paper investigates the characteristics of and interlinkages between electricity and water consumption on UAE farms to suggest policies for water-energy efficiency and conservation. Descriptive statistics and multivariate regression analysis were performed on data collected from surveys of farm owners and rural water tanker services. Unlike urban areas, these rural statistics show that water use is more important than electricity use, and that the cost and reliability of water are more important than the cost and reliability of electricity. Multivariate regression analysis identified interlinkages among five common factors that influence both electricity and water consumption: farmer age, worker salary, visiting times of owner's family, number of buildings, and number of rooms. Importantly, worker salary is the key influence on both water and electricity consumption. These results suggest that sustainable rural policies should consider the key factors of "workers' salary" and "water cost" for increasing both water-energy efficiency and conservation.
UT WOS:000593965500006
ER

PT J
AU Thompson, JR
   Frezza, D
   Necioglu, B
   Cohen, ML
   Hoffman, K
   Rosfjord, K
AF Thompson, James R.
   Frezza, Damon
   Necioglu, Burhan
   Cohen, Michael L.
   Hoffman, Kenneth
   Rosfjord, Kristine
TI Interdependent Critical Infrastructure Model (ICIM): An agent-based
   model of power and water infrastructure
DE Critical infrastructure; Agent-based model; Long-term planning
AB The comfort, mobility, and economic well-being of a population depends on reliable and affordable electric power services, which in turn requires a sustainable water supply. It is therefore increasingly important to analyze the sustainability and resilience of mid- and long-term electric utility and water system capacity expansion plans. Due to the inherent interdependency between power and water critical infrastructure, these expansion plans should be analyzed with respect to potential challenges posed by climate change and other risks. Decision-makers therefore require tools that facilitate an integrated analysis that captures the interdependency of power and water to better inform future expansion plans. Here we develop an agent-based model of a typical regional power system that incorporates the features of specific plant types and their cooling systems that are dependent on adequate water supplies at appropriate temperatures to support full power operation. The effects of capacity expansion plans, power demand growth, climate change, and extreme events are analyzed through different scenarios designed to illustrate the utility of such a model and show where it can aid in mid- and long-term planning. Keywords: Critical infrastructure Agent-based model Long-term planning. (C) 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000459143700012
ER

PT J
AU Munikoti, S
   Lai, KX
   Natarajan, B
AF Munikoti, Sai
   Lai, Kexing
   Natarajan, Balasubramaniam
TI Robustness assessment of Hetero-functional graph theory based model of
   interdependent urban utility networks
DE Hetero-functional graph theory; Interdependent urban infrastructure;
   Robustness; Contingency
ID NATURAL-GAS; ELECTRIC-POWER; SIMULATION
AB Increasing urban population imposes a substantial and growing burden on the supporting infrastructure, such as electricity, water, heating, natural gas, road transportation. This paper presents a Hetero-functional graph theory (HFGT) based modeling framework for these integrated infrastructures followed by an analysis of network robustness. The supporting infrastructures along with the infrastructure repair facilities are considered. In contrast to conventional graph representations, a weighted HFGT model is used to capture the system processes and mutual dependencies among resources. To assess robustness of interdependent networks, impacts of complete/partial and random/targeted attacks are quantified. Specifically, various attack scenarios are simulated and the vulnerability of the network is evaluated. Additionally, several robustness metrics are used to provide a comprehensive evaluation of system robustness. The proposed weighted HFGT modeling and robustness assessment approach is tested using a synthetic interdependent network, comprising of an electrical power system, a water network, a district heating network, a natural gas system and a road transportation network. Results demonstrate that system robustness can be enhanced via securing system information and mitigating attack strength.
UT WOS:000663910000028
ER

PT C
AU Gaur, V
   Yadav, OP
   Soni, G
   Rathore, APS
AF Gaur, Vaibhav
   Yadav, O. P.
   Soni, Gunjan
   Rathore, A. P. S.
BE Vosniakos, GC
   Pellicciari, M
   Benardos, P
   Markopoulos, A
TI Identification of Critical Nodes and Edges in a Network Based on
   Clustering
DE Criticality; Vulnerability; Clustering Coefficient; Network Efficiency
ID VULNERABILITY ANALYSIS; RELIABILITY-ANALYSIS
AB Network structures present within themselves specific characterization of their topological structures and connectivity. The properties of a given network change significantly as failure of its nodes and edges takes place. The failure of a node and/or edge reinstates the properties for the entire network. This paper aims to identify critical nodes and edges, the failure of which brings maximum change in the network properties. Clustering has been applied in this study for the identification process. The methodology discussed in this article would be helpful in tracking multi-states which a network undergoes due to failure of its nodes and edges. The proposed methodology would provide a holistic view for criticality of nodes and edges at both local and global level for a network. An optimum maintenance plan could then be devised for the critical nodes and edges to provide the system with a robust and resilient network. The proposed approach could be applied in power grid transmission, supply chain management, transportation and communication networks, oil, gas, power and water distribution networks to ensure continuous information and commodity flow through the networks. The methodology has been demonstrated with a case study in water distribution network. By applying the methodology, top five critical nodes and edges have been identified for the water distribution system. (C) 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
UT WOS:000863680700180
ER

PT J
AU Zuloaga, S
   Khatavkar, P
   Mays, L
   Vittal, V
AF Zuloaga, Scott
   Khatavkar, Puneet
   Mays, Larry
   Vittal, Vijay
TI Resilience of Cyber-Enabled Electrical Energy and Water Distribution
   Systems Considering Infrastructural Robustness Under Conditions of
   Limited Water and/or Energy Availability
DE Resilience; Measurement; Indexes; Power systems; Real-time systems;
   Cooling; Optimization; Electric power system (EPS); extended time-domain
   simulations; infrastructural resilience (IR); operational resilience
   (OR); real-time operations; water distribution systems (WDS); water
   energy nexus
ID SUSTAINABILITY ASSESSMENT; FRAMEWORK; ENHANCE
AB New metrics and a new methodology for determining system infrastructural-operational resilience are presented for the optimal real-time operation of two critical interdependent infrastructure systems-the water distribution systems (WDS) and the electric power system (EPS) under critical conditions of limited water and/or limited electrical energy resulting from extreme drought or electric grid failure, respectively. Operational resilience (OR) and infrastructural resilience are defined. The integrated resilience computation method is presented and utilizes results from a combined optimization-simulation framework, which involves capturing the interactions and associated dynamics between the EPS and WDS. A realistic example of the WDS and EPS is used to demonstrate the application of the resilience concepts to assess the interdependent systems' performance.
UT WOS:000761208300011
ER

PT J
AU Jamal, TB
   Hasan, S
AF Jamal, Tasnuba Binte
   Hasan, Samiul
TI A Generalized Accelerated Failure Time Model to Predict Restoration Time
   from Power Outages
DE Generalized accelerated failure time model; Hurricanes; Investor-owned
   power companies; Median income; Power outage; Restoration time
ID EXTREME EVENTS; ASSOCIATION; HURRICANES; IMPACTS; SYSTEMS
AB Major disasters such as wildfire, tornado, hurricane, tropical storm, and flooding cause disruptions in infrastructure systems such as power and water supply, wastewater management, telecommunication, and transportation facilities. Disruptions in electricity infrastructure have negative impacts on sectors throughout a region, including education, medical services, financial services, and recreation. In this study, we introduced a novel approach to investigate the factors that can be associated with longer restoration time of power service after a hurricane. Considering restoration time as the dependent variable and using a comprehensive set of county-level data, we estimated a generalized accelerated failure time (GAFT) model that accounts for spatial dependence among observations for time to event data. The model fit improved by 12% after considering the effects of spatial correlation in time to event data. Using the GAFT model and Hurricane Irma's impact on Florida as a case study, we examined: (1) differences in electric power outages and restoration rates among different types of power companies-investor-owned power companies, rural and municipal cooperatives; (2) the relationship between the duration of power outage and power system variables; and (3) the relationship between the duration of power outage and socioeconomic attributes. The findings of this study indicate that counties with a higher percentage of customers served by investor-owned electric companies and lower median household income faced power outage for a longer time. This study identified the key factors to predict restoration time of hurricane-induced power outages, allowing disaster management agencies to adopt strategies required for restoration process.
UT WOS:001137647800001
ER

PT J
AU Pietsch, M
   Steinke, F
AF Pietsch, Martin
   Steinke, Florian
TI The water energy nexus: Improved emergency grid restoration with DERs
DE Distribution grid restoration; Network inter-dependencies;
   Water-energy-nexus
ID UNBALANCED DISTRIBUTION-SYSTEMS; SERVICE RESTORATION; MODEL
AB Water networks as critical infrastructures typically feature emergency electricity generators for bridging short power blackouts. We propose to combine these black start capable generators with available distributed energy resources (DERs) in the power grid, often photovoltaic generation, to jointly restore both the electricity and the water grid in the case of emergencies. This is mutually beneficial for both notworks since common grid-following inverters of DERs cannot supply power without a grid-forming nucleus. We model both grids as a coupled graph and formulate a stochastic mixed-integer linear program to determine optimal switch placement and/or optimal switching sequences jointly for both networks. Limited fuel and power availabilities, grid-forming constraints, storages, and an even distribution of available resources are considered. By minimizing the number of switching devices and switching events we target manual operability. The proposed method extends the time that can be bridged until a full restoration of the main power grid is achieved. For a small example, we demonstrate that given enough solar radiation our solution allows us to extend the water supply duration by a factor of two, compared to using the emergency generators only for the water network, while additionally almost half of the electricity demands can be resupplied. Algorithmic scaling is validated with a combination of the IEEE 123-bus test feeder and the D-Town water network.
UT WOS:000856623900007
ER

PT J
AU Huang, XB
   Wang, NY
AF Huang, Xiubing
   Wang, Naiyu
TI Post-disaster restoration planning of interdependent infrastructure
   Systems: A framework to balance social and economic impacts
DE Resilience; Recovery; Interdependent infrastructure systems (IISs);
   Production of economic sectors; Social services; Pareto near -optimal
   solutions
ID NETWORK DESIGN; VULNERABILITY; RESILIENCE; RELIABILITY; SIMULATION;
   FUNCTIONALITY; RECOVERY
AB Hazard-induced service interruption of interdependent infrastructure systems (IISs) (e.g., electricity, water, gas, etc.) can lead to significant disruptions of social and economic functions of a modern society. An effective post -event restoration of the IISs is therefore of paramount importance to the overall recovery of a hazard-stricken community as a whole. As opposed to approaches with pure engineering perspectives, this study proposes an IISs restoration planning methodology aimed at balancing tradeoffs between the loss of social services (e.g., health care, food supply, etc.) and that of economic productions (e.g., construction, manufacturing, trade, etc.) throughout the IISs restoration process. The methodology is distinguished from previous researches with the following contributions: i) quantitatively relates the losses of various social services and economic productions to the service disruptions of IISs through the functionality loss of buildings; ii) the IISs disruption-induced overall losses of social services and economic productions accumulated throughout the whole recovery process is set as the bi-objective in formulating IISs restoration plans, and the Pareto optimal solutions are given to satisfy different decision preferences; iii) physics-based models capturing operational mechanisms of the IISs are embedded to provide realistic estimations of commodity supplies at each time step of the restoration optimi-zation. The optimization is coupled with Monte Carlo simulation to uncover the impact of decision preference on community recovery from a statistical point of view. Testbed illustration shows that the decision preference makes significant impact on the recovery of the community as a whole and of different areas in the community with different socioeconomic characteristics.
UT WOS:001128141100001
ER

PT C
AU Prasad, NR
   Ranade, SJ
   Hoang, HT
   Phuc, NH
AF Prasad, Nadipuram R.
   Ranade, Satish J.
   Huynh Thai Hoang
   Nguyen Huu Phuc
GP IEEE
TI Hydropower Energy Recovery (HyPER) from Water-flow Systems in Vietnam
DE hydropower harvesting; wastewater treatment systems; water-supply
   systems; low-head and low flow-rate systems
AB In this paper we focus on two types of hydropower sources that offer the greatest potential for harvesting or scavenging the unused energy, namely, energy from urban water treatment and water supply systems, and energy from free-flowing waterways where there is existing infrastructure. The continuous flow of water in urban wastewater treatment and water supply systems provides an uninterrupted source for energy recovery. Large water towers and tanks provide sufficient pressure-head to operate generators to produce electricity. Sewage water treatment facilities continuously produce disinfected effluent that is discharged in to natural water streams. Where there are existing infrastructures such as in irrigation canals and other waterways, there are strong possibilities for harvesting the unused kinetic and potential energy. This can vastly improve the electric power infrastructure and provide greater reliability of electric power service to the society.
UT WOS:000324641300017
ER

PT J
AU Kong, JJ
   Simonovic, SP
   Zhang, C
AF Kong, Jingjing
   Simonovic, Slobodan P.
   Zhang, Chao
TI Resilience Assessment of Interdependent Infrastructure Systems: A Case
   Study Based on Different Response Strategies
DE resilience; infrastructure system; multilayer network; infrastructure
   interdependence; restoration strategy
ID SEISMIC RESILIENCE; FRAMEWORK; VULNERABILITY; NETWORKS; METRICS; MODEL
AB Resilient infrastructure systems are essential for continuous and reliable functioning of social and economic systems. Taking advantage of network theory, this paper models street network, water supply network, power grid and information infrastructure network as layers that are integrated into a multilayer network. The infrastructure interdependencies are described using five basic dependence patterns of fundamental network elements. Definitions of dynamic cascading failures and recovery mechanisms of infrastructure systems are also established. The main contribution of the paper is a new infrastructure network resilience measure capable of addressing complex infrastructure system, as well as network component (layer) interdependences. The new measure is based on infrastructure network performance, proactive absorptive capacity and reactive restorative capacity, with three resilience features of network-robustness, resourcefulness, and rapidity. The quantitative resilience measure using dynamic space-time simulation model is illustrated with a multilayer infrastructure network numerical test, including different response strategies to floods of different scale. The results demonstrate that the resilience measure provides an evaluation method of various protection and restoration strategies that will optimize the performance of interdependent infrastructure system. The sector-specific decisions could not always lead to optimal system solutions, and systems approach offers significant benefits for increasing infrastructure system resilience. This study can assist municipal decision makers in (i) better understanding the effects of different response strategies on the resilience of interdependent infrastructure system, and (ii) deciding which strategy should be adopted under different types of disasters.
UT WOS:000508186400024
ER

PT J
AU Adachi, T
   Ellingwood, BR
AF Adachi, Takao
   Ellingwood, Bruce R.
TI Serviceability of earthquake-damaged water systems: Effects of
   electrical power availability and power backup systems on system
   vulnerability
DE earthquakes; electrical power; fragility; infrastructure; lifeline
   systems; networks; probability; reliability; water distribution
ID GROUND-MOTION; ATTENUATION RELATIONS
AB Civil infrastructure systems, such as water, electrical power, natural gas, and transportation systems, are essential to the smooth functioning of modern society. Because of their inter-connected nature, once one infrastructure system is damaged by an earthquake or other natural hazard, other infrastructure systems may malfunction as well. A number of previous studies have assessed vulnerability of infrastructure systems to earthquakes, but seldom have failures due to infrastructure system interactions been considered. In its assessment of the earthquake-induced damage of a municipal water system, this paper includes the impact of damage to the supporting electrical power system using a fault tree analysis and a shortest-path algorithm. The effect of uncertainty of seismic intensity and component fragility on network integrity is evaluated. A case study involving a simple model of the electrical power system and water system in Shelby County. TN, which includes the city of Memphis, demonstrates the importance of taking infrastructure interactions into account when evaluating the seismic vulnerability and risk to a networked system, as well as the utility of back-up power systems in electric power facilities. (C) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000250637000005
ER

PT C
AU Patil, M
   Sadgir, P
   Paranjape, P
AF Patil, Mahesh
   Sadgir, Parag
   Paranjape, Praveda
BE Kolathayar, S
   Hegde, A
   Shivapur, A
   Mulangi, RH
TI Analysis of Generation of Green Energy in Water Supply System Within
   High-Rise Building-A Sustainable Approach
DE Pico-hydro energy system (PHS); Renewable (green) energy; Water supply
   system; High-head; Sustainable building
ID TURBINE; RECOVERY; DESIGN
AB Amidst the rising demand for sustainable energy solutions in urban environments, reducing dependence on conventional sources is imperative. This study investigates the feasibility and benefits of integrating pico-hydro energy systems into the water supply infrastructure of high-rise buildings. The verticality of such structures provides significant water head, making them ideal for energy capture. The research extensively examines the potential for generating pico-hydro energy within these buildings' water distribution systems. Pico-hydroelectric systems, characterized by compact turbines, are seamlessly incorporated into the water pipe network at regular intervals, tapping into the kinetic energy present during water distribution. The main objective is to evaluate power generation using a pico-hydro turbine within an experimental setup consists a pico-hydro turbine coupled with a DC generator, LEDs, water meter, nozzle, and water distribution system. Theoretical calculations are grounded in fundamental fluid mechanics equations, with validation through experimental and numerical analyses. Results provide valuable insights into pico-hydro energy generation's potential as a sustainable solution for meeting high-rise buildings' energy demands. Furthermore, this study aims to inform urban architects, planners, designers, and policymakers about integrating renewable energy technologies into urban infrastructure. Such integration could lead to more sustainable and resilient practices in urban environments. The findings suggest opportunities for optimizing pico-hydro systems to enhance efficiency and scalability. Additionally, exploring integration with smart grid technologies could enable seamless energy distribution and management in urban contexts. By embracing these insights, stakeholders can make informed decisions regarding the implementation of renewable energy solutions, contributing to a more sustainable urban future.
UT WOS:001764771000008
ER

PT J
AU Zhang, YM
   Zhang, HY
   Wang, SQ
   Li, ZW
   Tan, RR
   Wang, F
   Jia, XP
AF Zhang, Yanmei
   Zhang, Haoyuan
   Wang, Siqi
   Li, Zhiwei
   Tan, Raymond R.
   Wang, Fang
   Jia, Xiaoping
TI Vulnerability analysis of water systems to power interruptions in
   critical infrastructures
DE Water-power nexus; Critical infrastructures; Vulnerability indicators;
   Cascade failure; Scenario simulation
ID INTERDEPENDENT POWER; ENERGY NEXUS; RESILIENCE; NETWORKS; FAILURES
AB The operation of the water distribution system is highly dependent on the power supply. Previous studies that focused on static cascading failures in interdependent water and power distribution systems fail to account for their dynamic response to disturbances. To address this gap, this study develops a cascading failure analysis model to simulate their dynamic response to disturbances. Vulnerability assessment indicators are also proposed based on Water Service Capability (SCW) and Power Service Capability (SCP) evolution curves under disturbance scenarios to quantify ripple effects of power interruptions on water distribution systems. Using a 15-node testing water distribution system with a pumping station power supply system as an example. Generating storm scenarios for time-series simulation using Monte Carlo sampling. Results show that SCW exhibits short-term vulnerability to power interruptions but maintains robust buffering and recovery capabilities over the medium to long term. SCW loss duration is on average 4.5 times longer than SCP. Storage tanks delay water supply loss to demand nodes about 4 h longer than the pump failure time. Vulnerability of water distribution systems increases with longer pump failure durations. The proposed model can provide decision support for reducing cascading vulnerability of interconnected power and water networks to cascading failures by allowing alternative designs and modifications to be simulated.
UT WOS:001740781200001
ER

PT J
AU Li, DS
   Gao, CW
   Chen, T
   Zuo, J
   Wu, XH
AF Li, Dongsen
   Gao, Ciwei
   Chen, Tao
   Zuo, Juan
   Wu, Xinhong
TI Day-Ahead Scheduling of Integrated Power and Water System Considering a
   Refined Model of Power-to-Gas
DE Electricity supply industry; Low-carbon economy; Decision making; Power
   system management; Integrated design; Water resources; Power-to-gas;
   integrated power and water system; refined model; intermittency;
   information gap decision theory
AB To accommodate surplus electricity and decarbonize, power-to-gas (PtG) is being widely considered in the integrated energy system with high proportion of renewable energy. However, the reaction model of PtG should be refined for the sake of making a precise operation strategy and economic evaluation. Compared with the ordinary model of power-to-gas process, this article makes two main improvements. First, an explicit expression of electrolytic process is given according to the usage of electricity. In the refined electrolytic model, the recovery of the extra heat in the electrolytic process and the compression of feed-in gas is explored. Second, the response model of the methanation process to the intermittency of the renewable energy is established. Considering the increasing coupling of power system and water network, we formulate a day-ahead scheduling program for an integrated power and water system (IPWS). Thus, the role of double regulation of power-to-gas is more noticeable. Finally, the accuracy and economical performance of the refined model of power-to-gas is demonstrated through case studies. The results show a significant body of recoverable extra heat reaching 26.6% of the total power consumption. Also, it shows a dramatic growth in PtG's consumption by 61.9% considering compression consumption. Moreover, the information gap decision theory (IGDT) is applied in the unit commitment scheme. Based on IGDT, the impact of the renewable energy uncertainty on the decision-making of IPWS operator is discussed.
UT WOS:000848207000001
ER

PT J
AU Ayyash, F
   Javadi, AA
   Farmani, R
AF Ayyash, Faten
   Javadi, Akbar A.
   Farmani, Raziyeh
TI Enhancing Resilience of Intermittent Water Supply Systems to Power
   Outages
DE Intermittent water supply (IWS); Electricity intermittency; Global
   resilience analysis (GRA)
ID MANAGEMENT; EQUITY; RISKS; SAFE
AB An estimated 1.3 billion people in South Asia, Latin America, and Africa receive water for domestic purposes through piped networks for limited periods, referred to as intermittent water supply (IWS). Electricity intermittency is one of the main causes of water supply intermittency. In water supply systems, electrical power is used for pumping water from the sources to the treatment plants and then to users via the water distribution systems (WDSs). If the electrical power system fails to supply at WDSs pumping stations, this will lead to failure in water distribution systems. To ensure more sustainable IWS systems, evaluating and enhancing water infrastructure resilience is crucial. Understanding the underlying system's inherent resilience is a prerequisite for enhancing its resilience. This study presents a novel approach for investigating the performance of an IWS system under power outage (modeled as pump failure) scenarios and identifying potential intervention strategies to enhance network resilience to limited power availability. The proposed methodology employs a two-step strategy: in the first step a global resilience analysis approach is used to investigate the performance of an IWS system under pump failure scenarios to identify and localize its main vulnerabilities. In the second step optimum adaptation intervention strategies are identified by the application of the evolutionary multiobjective optimization method. A nondominated sorting genetic algorithm (NSGA-II) is used for the optimum operation and rehabilitation of IWS systems considering three objectives: the operation and rehabilitation costs, the level of equity, and the proportion of effective supply hours. The results show that while the adaptation strategy of optimal operation intervention improved equity and effective supply hours slightly, the adaptation strategies of optimum operation and rehabilitation intervention significantly increased the system resilience to power outage/pump failure scenarios by improving both equity and effective supply hours.
UT WOS:001444664100001
ER

PT J
AU Ma, TH
   Xu, CS
   Hou, BW
AF Ma, Tianhe
   Xu, Chengshun
   Hou, Benwei
TI Quantifying the dependent failure of urban power-water supply systems
   under earthquake hazards from the perspective of energy transfer
DE Power-water supply system; Seismic performance; Dependent failure;
   Energy transfer; Functionality analysis
ID INFRASTRUCTURE SYSTEMS; RESILIENCE
AB Urban power-water systems (PWSs) exhibit complex dependence that exacerbates the degradation of their infrastructure service capacity under earthquake hazards. Existing earthquake risk analysis frameworks for PWSs usually characterize the system dependencies as binary states through joint failure probabilities, which fail to capture the dynamics of cascading failure among dependent PWSs. From the perspective of energy transfer among the dependent infrastructure systems, this study proposes a novel seismic performance analysis framework for urban PWS to reveal the energy transfer amid the power system (PS), water distribution system (WDS), and terminal users, which integrates power flow and water hydraulic models. A dual-network model is first constructed to characterize PWS with directional dependency between power substations and water treatment plants. Seismic damage samples of PWS are then generated by seismic fragility models of components and quasiMonte Carlo simulations. Finally, two real-world PWS cases are employed to validate the effectiveness of this framework. Results show that the proposed framework is capable of depicting the WDS performance that lies between the fully and non-power supply, which is usually higher than the estimations by the previous binarydependent failure model of the PWS, providing a new perspective for disaster risk reduction of PWS.
UT WOS:001864815800001
ER

PT J
AU Ghorbani-Renani, N
   González, AD
   Barker, K
AF Ghorbani-Renani, Nafiseh
   Gonzalez, Andres D.
   Barker, Kash
TI A decomposition approach for solving tri-level
   defender-attacker-defender problems
DE Resilience; Interdependent infrastructure networks; Network interdiction
   model; Tri-level optimization; Decomposition-based algorithm
ID ELECTRIC GRID SECURITY; OPTIMAL INTERDICTION; NETWORK DESIGN; FACILITY
   PROTECTION; PROGRAMMING-MODEL; ROUTING PROBLEM; RESILIENCE; SYSTEM;
   OPTIMIZATION; DEFINITIONS
AB Network-based systems widely appear in different service, community, industrial, and economic systems such as electric power, water supply, transportation, and telecommunication networks. Due to the significant role of such systems in society, it is essential to have an effective plan to enhance the resilience of infrastructure networks against disruption (e.g., natural disasters, malevolent attacks, or operational failures). In relation to the concept of resilience, two relevant questions arise: (i) how does performance degrade after a disruption, or what is the vulnerability of the system? and (ii) how rapid does the disrupted system return to the desired performance level, or how can we characterize the system's recoverability? To enhance the resilience of a system against disruption, we address simultaneous actions of vulnerability reduction and recoverability enhancement through interdiction model, particularly defender-attacker-defender (DAD) model. However, the proposed model is computationally challenging to solve. To deal with this issue, we design a decomposition-based solution algorithm as a general framework to optimally solve tri-level DAD models in more efficiently. The proposed solution technique is demonstrated with the existing DAD model, namely a tri-level protection-interdiction-restoration model. To define the critical components subject to protection and disruption, an efficient clustering technique is applied which results in generating three sets of candidate components based on three centrality measures. We represent an illustrative case study based on the system of interdependent infrastructure networks in Shelby County, TN, for which we solve the model and assess the computational results for each set of candidate components. The results indicate that the proposed solution algorithm substantially outperforms the traditional covering decomposition method with regard to computational complexity, particularly for the higher budget scenarios. Finally, we compare and analyze the results of the existing interdiction model, the protection-interdictionrestoration formulation represented by M-I, with a new protection-interdiction-counteraction model, denoted by M-II, in which the restoration level is not considered. Results suggest that although M-I is a comprehensive interdiction model relative to M-II, it suffers substantially from computational complexity. Therefore, there exists a tradeoff between employing a more comprehensive model with higher computational complexity and neglecting the recovery process with the interdiction model.
UT WOS:000632961600028
ER

PT J
AU Najafi, J
   Peiravi, A
   Anvari-Moghaddam, A
   Guerrero, JM
AF Najafi, Javad
   Peiravi, Ali
   Anvari-Moghaddam, Amjad
   Guerrero, Josep. M.
TI An efficient interactive framework for improving resilience of
   power-water distribution systems with multiple privately-owned
   microgrids
DE Microgrids; Natural disasters; Resilience; Stochastic linear
   programming; Water network
ID DEMAND RESPONSE; EXTREME; RESTORATION
AB Resilience improvement of power distribution networks against natural disasters is an important problem. Water network similar to other important infrastructures depends on power networks. In this paper, resilience improvement is defined as increasing the users' accessibility to water and power after natural disasters. Microgrids with appropriate operation can provide energy to restore disconnected loads in distribution networks. In the proposed interactive framework, a stochastic energy management program for microgrids is designed that not only determines the amount of energy can be delivered to distribution systems, but also considers the reliability of local loads during emergency conditions. Each microgrid provides a list of bid-quantity energy blocks to the distribution system operator (DSO) during the emergency period. Then, the DSO chooses the best plan to restore disconnected loads considering inaccessibility values to power and water and also the damage of power and water distribution networks. Demand response actions in microgrids are also considered as effective tools for the energy management program, and their impact on the distribution system resilience is investigated. The proposed model is tested on the modified IEEE 33-bus distribution system with multiple microgrids, and the effectiveness of the proposed method is validated accordingly.
UT WOS:000499733200049
ER

PT J
AU Hamed, OA
   Al-Washmi, HA
   Al-Otaibi, HA
AF Hamed, Osman A.
   Al-Washmi, Hamed A.
   Al-Otaibi, Holayil A.
TI Thermoeconomic analysis of a power/water cogeneration plant
DE cogeneration; thermoeconomics; exergy; power; water
ID COST ALLOCATION; ACCOUNTING METHOD; WATER; ELECTRICITY
AB Cogeneration plants for simultaneous production of water and electricity are widely used in the Arabian Gulf region. They have proven to be more thermodynamically efficient and economically feasible than single purpose power generation and water production plants. Yet, there is no standard or universally applied methodology for determining unit cost of electric power generation and desalinated water production by dual purpose plants.
   A comprehensive literature survey to critically assess and evaluate different methods for cost application in power/water cogeneration plants is reported in this paper. Based on this analysis, an in-depth thermoeconomic study is carried out on a selected power/water cogeneration plant that employs a regenerative Rankine cycle. The system incorporates a boiler, back pressure turbine (supplying steam to two MSF distillers), a deaerator and two feed water heaters. The turbine generation is rated at 118 MW, while MSF distiller is rated at 7.7 MIGD at a top brine temperature of 105 degrees C. An appropriate costing procedure based on the available energy accounting method which divides benefits of the cogeneration configuration equitably between electricity generation and water production is used to determine the unit costs of electricity and water. Capital charges of common equipment such as the boiler, deaerator and feed water heaters as well as boiler fuel costs are distributed between power generated and desalinated water according to available energy consumption of the major subsystems. A detailed sensitivity analysis was performed to examine the impact of the variation of fuel cost, load and availability factors in addition to capital recovery factor on electricity and water production costs. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000241524100012
ER

PT J
AU Yang, YS
   Li, ZM
   Lo, EY
AF Yang, Yesen
   Li, Zhengmao
   Lo, Edmond Y.
TI Multi-timescale risk-averse restoration for interdependent water-power
   networks with joint reconfiguration and diverse uncertainties
DE Interdependent water-power systems; Restoration; Joint reconfiguration;
   Robust optimization; Risk-averse stochastic programming
ID SYSTEMS; INFRASTRUCTURE; OPTIMIZATION; MODEL
AB The growing interdependencies between water and power systems have increased the risk of cascading disruptions and widespread blackouts. Such interdependencies, together with different operational characteristics and multiple uncertainties, introduce additional complexities to service restoration. To address these issues, this paper proposes a coordinated multi-timescale restoration strategy for interdependent water-power networks (IWPNs). First, we model the IWPN as network-based with physical mechanisms, incorporating component-wise interdependencies and varying consumer demands. Features comprising pipe damage (water leakage) and storage as well as renewable generations are modelled to better reflect restoration better. Specifically, the joint reconfigurability of water and power networks is first applied for adjustment of topologies and leverages off backup components by coordinated setting of valves and switches. Then, an updated estimation for multiple uncertainties during restoration is utilized, which offers increasing clarity to support better decision-making. These uncertainties arise from renewable generations and water and power demands. A multi-timescale decision framework is developed to capture these effects and tune restoration measures based on response speeds to facilitate efficient and reliable restoration. Finally, the method is implemented by combining robust optimization and risk-averse stochastic programming and applied to a community-scale test system with 25 water nodes and 33 power buses. The proposed method is compared with five conventional methods with numerical results demonstrating the improvements arising from an interdependent restoration, joint reconfigurability, and multi-timescale optimizations.
UT WOS:001479464500001
ER

PT J
AU Sanders, KT
   Blackhurst, MF
   King, CW
   Webber, ME
AF Sanders, Kelly T.
   Blackhurst, Michael F.
   King, Carey W.
   Webber, Michael E.
TI The Impact of Water Use Fees on Dispatching and Water Requirements for
   Water-Cooled Power Plants in Texas
AB We utilize a unit commitment and dispatch model to estimate how water use fees on power generators would affect dispatching and water requirements by the power sector in the Electric Reliability Council of Texas' (ERCOT) electric grid. Fees ranging from 10 to 1000 USD per acre-foot were separately applied to water withdrawals and consumption. Fees were chosen to be comparable in cost to a range of water supply projects proposed in the Texas Water Development Board's State Water Plan to meet demand through 2050. We found that these fees can reduce water withdrawals and consumption for cooling thermoelectric power plants in ERCOT by as much as 75% and 23%, respectively. To achieve these water savings, wholesale electricity generation costs might increase as much as 120% based on 2011 fuel costs and generation characteristics. We estimate that water saved through these fees is not as cost-effective as conventional long-term water supply projects. However, the electric grid offers short-term flexibility that conventional water supply projects do not. Furthermore, this manuscript discusses conditions under which the grid could be effective at "supplying" water, particularly during emergency drought conditions, by changing its operational conditions.
UT WOS:000337646000073
ER

PT J
AU Wang, RR
   Zimmerman, JB
   Wang, CY
   Vivanco, DF
   Hertwich, EG
AF Wang, Ranran
   Zimmerman, Julie B.
   Wang, Chunyan
   Vivanco, David Font
   Hertwich, Edgar G.
TI Freshwater Vulnerability beyond Local Water Stress: Heterogeneous
   Effects of Water-Electricity Nexus Across the Continental United States
ID CLIMATE-CHANGE; RESOURCES; ENERGY; FUTURE; SCARCITY; IMPACTS; SYSTEMS;
   TRADE; GLOBALIZATION; CONSUMPTION
AB Human health and economic prosperity are vulnerable to freshwater shortage in many parts of the world. Despite a growing literature that examines the freshwater vulnerability in various spatiotemporal contexts, existing knowledge has been conventionally constrained by a territorial perspective. On the basis of spatial analyses of monthly water and electricity flows across 2110 watersheds and three interconnected power systems, this study investigates the water-electricity nexus (WEN)s transboundary effects on freshwater vulnerability in the continental United States in 2014. The effects are shown to be considerable and heterogeneous across time and space. For at least one month a year, 58 million people living in water-abundant watersheds were exposed to additional freshwater vulnerability by relying on electricity generated by freshwater-cooled thermal energy conversion cycles in highly stressed watersheds; for 72 million people living in highly stressed watersheds, their freshwater vulnerability was mitigated by using imported electricity generated in water-abundant watersheds or power plants running dry cooling or using nonfreshwater for cooling purposes. On the country scale, the mitigation effects were the most significant during September and October, while the additional freshwater vulnerability was more significant in February, March, and December. Due to the WENs transboundary effects, overall, the freshwater vulnerability was slightly worsened within the Eastern Interconnection, substantially improved within the Western Interconnection, and least affected within the ERCOT Interconnection.
UT WOS:000410255800052
ER

PT J
AU Stodle, K
   Metcalfe, CA
   Brunner, LG
   Saliani, JN
   Flage, R
   Guikema, SD
AF Stodle, Kaia
   Metcalfe, Caroline A.
   Brunner, Logan G.
   Saliani, Julian N.
   Flage, Roger
   Guikema, Seth D.
TI Dependent infrastructure system modeling: A case study of the St. Kitts
   power and water distribution systems
DE Critical infrastructures; dependencies; modeling; case study
ID VULNERABILITY ANALYSIS; NETWORKS; OUTAGES; POLES
AB Critical infrastructure systems underlie the economy, national security, and health of modern society. These infrastructures have become increasingly dependent on each other, which poses challenges when modeling these systems. Although a number of methods have been developed for this problem, few case studies that model realworld dependent infrastructures have been conducted. In this paper, we aim to provide another example of such a case study by modeling a real-world water distribution system dependent on a power system. Unlike in the limited previous case studies, our case study is in a developing nation context. This makes the availability of data about the infrastructure systems in this case study very limited, which is a common characteristic of real-world studies in many settings. Thus, a main contribution of the paper is to show how one can still develop representative, useful models for systems in the context of limited data. To demonstrate the utility of these types of models, two examples of different analyses are performed, where the results provide information about the most vulnerable parts of the infrastructures and critical linkages between the power and water distribution systems.
UT WOS:000663909200006
ER

PT J
AU Magoua, JJ
   Huang, JX
   Kwak, YH
   Li, N
AF Magoua, Joseph Jonathan
   Huang, Jiaxu
   Kwak, Young Hoon
   Li, Nan
TI Collaborative decision making for natural disaster recovery of
   interdependent infrastructure systems
DE Critical infrastructure system; Disaster resilience; Collaborative
   decision-making; Cooperative game
ID RESTORATION; RESILIENCE; VULNERABILITY; MODEL
AB As critical infrastructure systems (CISs) become increasingly interdependent, post-disaster recovery outcomes depend strongly on how restoration decisions are coordinated across coupled systems. Traditional centralized and decentralized approaches to disaster recovery planning face significant limitations in both applicability and performance. In response, this study proposes to coordinate the restoration decisions under a collaborative decision framework that integrates local planning with supervisory cross-system coordination using cooperative game theory. Moreover, this study presents a systematic comparative evaluation of four post-disaster restoration strategies for interdependent CISs, ranging from fully uncoordinated decentralized decision-making to fully centralized control. Using a case study of interdependent power and water systems, the results show that decentralized strategies may lead to substantial recovery inefficiencies when interdependencies are strong, while centralized decision-making provides an upper-bound benchmark that is often institutionally impractical. The supervisory cooperative strategy achieves recovery trajectories and resilience outcomes close to the centralized benchmark, reducing recovery time by up to 31% and improving overall resilience by up to 5% relative to decentralized strategies. This study provides empirical insights into the trade-offs between autonomy, coordination, and performance in interdependent CIS recovery. The results offer practical guidance for decision-makers seeking coordination mechanisms that improve resilience without requiring full centralization, and contribute comparative evidence to the literature on post-disaster infrastructure recovery.
UT WOS:001728077700001
ER

PT J
AU Almoghathawi, Y
   Barker, K
   Albert, LA
AF Almoghathawi, Yasser
   Barker, Kash
   Albert, Laura A.
TI Resilience-driven restoration model for interdependent infrastructure
   networks
DE Interdependent networks; Resilience; Restoration; Optimization;
   Mixed-integer programming
ID VULNERABILITY ANALYSIS; STOCHASTIC-MEASURES; SYSTEMS; RECOVERY; METRICS;
   DESIGN; DEFINITIONS; SIMULATION; ALLOCATION; FAILURES
AB Critical infrastructure networks such as electric power, water distribution, natural gas, transportation and telecommunications are the backbone of modern societies as they provide them with the services that are essential for their continuous functioning. However, these infrastructure networks are not isolated from each other but instead, most of them rely on one another to be functional. Hence, they are highly vulnerable to any disruptive event (e.g., components deteriorating, terrorist attacks, or natural disasters) which makes their restoration more challenging task for decision makers. In this paper, we study the restoration problem of a system of interdependent infrastructure networks following a disruption event considering different disruptions scenarios. We propose a resilience-driven multi-objective restoration model using mixed-integer programming that aims to maximize the resilience of the system of interdependent infrastructure networks while minimizing the total cost associated with the restoration process. The restoration model considers the availability of limited time and resources and provides a prioritized list of components, nodes or links, to be restored along with assigning and scheduling them to the available work crews. The proposed model is illustrated through a generated system of interdependent power-water networks, however it is applicable to any physically interdependent networks.
UT WOS:000459949900002
ER

PT J
AU Maraqa, SN
   Karakoc, DB
   Ghorbani-Renani, N
   Barker, K
   González, AD
AF Maraqa, Saf'a N.
   Karakoc, Deniz Berfin
   Ghorbani-Renani, Nafiseh
   Barker, Kash
   Gonzalez, Andres D.
TI Project schedule compression for the efficient restoration of
   interdependent infrastructure systems
DE Interdependent infrastructure networks; Resilience; Restoration
   planning; Project management; Schedule compression; Multi-objective
   optimization
ID NETWORK DESIGN; RESILIENCE; MODEL; OPTIMIZATION; VULNERABILITY
AB The timely restoration of infrastructure networks is critical for society's functionality and wellbeing. However, it is also a substantially challenging task due to the various logistic and resource restrictions from time to budget and work crew availability. Restoration of infrastructure networks is a time-sensitive task as even a slight delay might cause inconvenience or worse to the community for an extended period. As such, diverse models have centered on determining optimal recovery sequences so that recovery time is minimized. However, in some circumstances, given the importance of a timely recovery, even optimal sequences may not result in a quick enough restoration. To address this problem, this paper proposes a multi-objective model for enhanced restoration based on a mixed integer linear programming model that determines optimal job sequencing and crew assignment for a system of interdependent infrastructure networks, while determining key areas for crashing schedule compression, where additional resources would help expedite the full restoration. The implications of project crashing are represented by a cost benefit analysis for a set of solutions enabling the decision maker to study the tradeoffs between restoration duration and restoration cost. The proposed model is applied to a system of interdependent water, power, and gas networks in Shelby County, TN, USA.
UT WOS:000833559100016
ER

PT J
AU Portilla-Paveri, M
   Cariaga, D
   Negrete-Pincetic, M
   Lorca, A
   Anjos, MF
AF Portilla-Paveri, Manuel
   Cariaga, Denise
   Negrete-Pincetic, Matias
   Lorca, Alvaro
   Anjos, Miguel F.
TI A long-term generation and transmission expansion planning model
   considering desalination flexibility and coordination: A Chilean case
   study
DE Expansion planning with renewable energies; Power system planning;
   Desalination; Flexible operation
ID STORAGE-SYSTEMS; PV; ENERGY; STATE
AB The evolving landscape of electrical grids has presented formidable challenges to energy systems, which need adaptable solutions for reliability, supply adequacy, and demand balance, where demand flexibility arises as a pivotal operational asset for these needs. In recent decades, desalination technology, particularly reverse osmosis, has been employed to purify seawater and brackish water by removing salt and impurities, effectively addressing water scarcity in some regions of the world. However, its energy-intensive nature, driven by highpressure pump usage, leads to significant operational expenses and places additional strain on the power grid. Our study introduces a novel holistic model for the Chilean electricity system, incorporating reverse osmosis desalination facilities to comprehensively confront water scarcity through strategies that leverage the flexibility of high-pressure pumps. The model considers dispatch coordination, unveiling the synergy's value given mainly by the desalination system and the energy generation infrastructure. The study underscores the influence of desalination on power system dynamics, transmission, and generation expansion throughout the time horizon of 2025 to 2040. The principal findings underscore the advantages derived from co-optimizing desalination and the electrical system, the enhanced system performance from flexible desalination plant operations, and the synergistic potential of solar, battery energy storage, and the desalinated water system. These insights help to inform investment decisions, decarbonization policies, and the water-energy nexus interplay, charting a course towards comprehensive sustainability.
UT WOS:001257800700001
ER

PT J
AU Liu, XN
   Li, JL
   Li, ZL
   Ji, YB
AF Liu, Xinnan
   Li, Jialu
   Li, Zhanling
   Ji, Yingbo
TI Vulnerability analyses of power-water interdependent infrastructure
   networks by using load-functional dependency coupled cascading failure
   model
DE Interdependent infrastructure networks; Cascading failure; Load
   dynamics; Functional dependency; Vulnerability analyses
ID ATTACK VULNERABILITY; ROBUSTNESS
AB Previous studies on vulnerability analyses of interdependent critical infrastructure networks are mainly based on cascading failure models that only consider the effect of network topologies and binary dependencies, overlooking progressive functional degradation. This study proposes a novel cascading failure model that explicitly couples load dynamics with progressive functional dependency in power-water interdependent infrastructure networks. By introducing execution performance parameter as a quantitative indicator, the proposed model establishes a bidirectional feedback mechanism between load redistribution and functional dependency-induced performance loss. The proposed model is applied to analyze vulnerability of a county-scale power-water interdependent infrastructure network in Zibo, China. Results show that vulnerability of power-water interdependent infrastructure networks will be underestimated by neglecting dynamic coupling of load dynamics and functional dependency. Moreover, node attributes only account for 24.5% of the functional degradation, suggesting that network vulnerability predominantly emerges from dynamic coupling of load dynamics and functional dependency. This study provides a new practical approach for analyzing vulnerability and improving resilience of interdependent critical infrastructure networks.
UT WOS:001813850000001
ER

PT J
AU Zhang, JC
   Chen, JJ
   Yang, DC
   Liu, C
AF Zhang, Jicheng
   Chen, Jiajia
   Yang, Dechang
   Liu, Cong
TI Robust learning-enabled voltage control for water-electricity systems
   under incomplete topology and parameter information
DE Water-electricity coupled systems; Topology uncertainty; Parameter
   uncertainty; Robust voltage control; Nested convex body chasing
AB Water-electricity coupled systems play a vital role in the integrated management of energy and water resources, improving resource efficiency and system resilience. However, frequent topological switching, communication gaps, and time-varying electrical couplings severely challenge voltage stability. This paper develops a unified learning-control framework for water-electricity coupled systems under incomplete topology and parameter in formation, aiming to achieve robust voltage control while improving voltage stability and hydraulic safety. A nested convex body chasing algorithm enables joint online identification, while a robust model predictive con troller with a dynamic buffer term compensates for estimation errors and disturbances. Theoretical guarantees are provided via finite bounds on constraint violations under worst-case conditions. The proposed method is val idated on a coupled system consisting of a Southern California Edison 56-bus power distribution network and a 15-node water distribution network. Simulation results demonstrate that, even under the challenging case where both the power-grid topology and the WDN parameters are completely unknown, the proposed method largely maintains system-wide voltages within the prescribed safety limits. The average voltage-violation magnitude over the entire dispatch horizon is only 0.0322 kV, showing a clear improvement over the no control and two-stage control strategies. Meanwhile, the WDN experiences no hydraulic-head violations and retains an average hydraulic-head safety margin of 16.679 m.
UT WOS:001830127300001
ER

PT J
AU Mao, Q
   Li, N
AF Mao, Quan
   Li, Nan
TI Assessment of the impact of interdependencies on the resilience of
   networked critical infrastructure systems
DE Critical infrastructure system; Resilience; Interdependency; Modeling;
   Metric; Disturbance propagation
ID SEISMIC RESILIENCE; DISASTER RESILIENCE; CASCADING FAILURES; HURRICANE
   KATRINA; LIFELINE SYSTEMS; EXTREME EVENTS; POWER-SYSTEMS; NEW-ORLEANS;
   OF-SYSTEMS; VULNERABILITY
AB Critical infrastructure systems (CISs) have a fundamental role in delivering commodities that are essential to various functions in urban systems. The resilience of CISs concerns the robustness of system performance against extreme events, the ineffectiveness of disturbance propagation, and the efficiency of post-disaster system performance restoration. The resilience of CISs is significantly impacted by the interconnectivity among CISs and the interactions among different systems. Although this impact has been recognized by numerous studies, it has rarely been comparatively assessed using different metrics that reflect the different perspectives of various stakeholders. Moreover, the existing literature on the impact of interdependencies in the context of CIS disaster risk reduction has primarily focused on the resistance stage rather than the entire life cycle of disaster events. To address these gaps, this study assesses this impact at different stages of the life cycle of disturbance events, analyzes the effect of interdependencies on determining the total resilience of CISs, and discusses the implications of the results in the context of resilience enhancement of CISs in practice. To achieve this objective, this study models interconnected CISs using four different network-based approaches, simulates the disturbance propagation process and system restoration process of CISs in three different scenarios, and measures the resilience of disturbed CISs with three different resilience metrics. A case study of three CISs in a middle-sized city in Eastern China was conducted. The CISs included an electric power system, a telecommunication system, and a water supply system. The results revealed that the vulnerability of CISs to extreme events would be significantly underestimated if interdependencies of the CISs were not considered, which would cause a misleading estimation of the total resilience of the CISs. The findings also suggested the importance of considering the interdependencies of CISs in the sequencing of restoration tasks to optimize the efficiency of post-disaster restoration tasks.
UT WOS:000437396900015
ER

PT J
AU Moazeni, F
   Khazaei, J
   Mitra, P
AF Moazeni, Faegheh
   Khazaei, Javad
   Mitra, Prasenjit
TI An integrated state-estimation framework for interdependent water and
   energy systems
DE Water-energy nexus; State-estimation; Bad data detection; False data
   injection; Newton-Raphson method; Water distribution system; Electric
   power grid
ID VULNERABILITY; ALGORITHM; RESPECT; MODELS
AB Recent studies have shown indisputable evidence indicating water and energy networks are two interdependent cyber-physical networks and should be operated cooperatively to maximize their efficiency and resiliency. However, current state-estimation models of water and energy infrastructures are implemented independently in their respective control centers. Such independent state-estimation in energy or water network might not be able to detect false data injections in the other network. In this paper, an integrated state-estimation framework is proposed to process the consistency of the data and estimate the parameters of a combined water and energy network. Compared to standalone state-estimation, an integrated framework proposed in this work makes it more difficult for the attackers to launch stealthy false data injections, as more parameters are involved in the state-estimation that need to be modified for a successful attack. The findings of this research confirm that by accounting for interlinks between hydrological and energy systems, the security of both systems will be improved. The interconnection between the state variables and measurements of the water-energy network is reflected in the energy consuming components of the water system, and is achieved through the measurements of pump's active power consumption in the proposed integrated estimation framework. The framework includes Newton's iterative method for an alternating current (AC) state-estimation procedure for the energy network. The state-estimation of the energy network includes the estimation of voltages using measured parameters of the energy network such as active/reactive power flow/injection or voltages. Moreover, a three-tier state-estimation process based on Newton's iterative method for the water network is contemplated to attain nodal heads, nodal demands, and the flow rate of the pipes without pumps. An integrated bad data detection algorithm is also supplemented to the proposed framework to detect potential bad data in water distribution system or energy network and enhance the resilience of the integrated water energy systems.
UT WOS:000599754500120
ER

PT J
AU Zorn, CR
   Shamseldin, AY
AF Zorn, Conrad R.
   Shamseldin, Asaad Y.
TI Post-disaster infrastructure restoration: A comparison of events for
   future planning
DE Lifeline infrastructure; Restoration; Disaster recovery
ID ELECTRIC-POWER; DISASTER RESILIENCE; EARTHQUAKE; SYSTEM; QUANTIFICATION;
   CHRISTCHURCH; HURRICANES; DISRUPTION; SIMULATION; LIFELINE
AB The restoration of lifeline infrastructures following a major disruptive disaster is a complex task. Along with the implementation of mitigation measures, pre-event recovery planning can be of great assistance to this process. This paper seeks to inform such planning discussions by suggesting likely paths of recovery over time, and in turn computing indicative estimates of expected restoration times. While current methods can require significant amounts of data and are calibrated to few events, the presented approach analyses and combines 63 electricity, water, gas, and telecommunications post-disaster infrastructure recoveries from across the world. Recoveries are compared across disaster types with global median recovery curves produced to inform likely restoration rates for future disasters. Models based on initial outages or seismic shaking intensity directly provide estimates of expected recovery times back to 90% operability of the initial disruption. An application of the presented methodology is presented as a case study for the Wellington Region of New Zealand with recovery estimates comparing favorably with those presented in the literature. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000368928000016
ER

PT J
AU Yang, YS
   Tatano, H
   Huang, QY
   Liu, H
   Yoshizawa, G
   Wang, K
AF Yang, Yongsheng
   Tatano, Hirokazu
   Huang, Quanyi
   Liu, Huan
   Yoshizawa, Gentaro
   Wang, Ke
TI Evaluating the societal impact of disaster-driven infrastructure
   disruptions: A water analysis perspective
DE Societal impact; Needs satisfaction analysis; Infrastructure disruption;
   Infrastructure resilience; Adaptive capacity; Water availability
   analysis
ID RESILIENCE; VULNERABILITY; COMMUNITIES; RELIABILITY; SYSTEMS; ACCESS;
   HEALTH
AB Critical infrastructure plays an important role in providing essential products and services to people; however, it is vulnerable to disasters and its disruption can have a severe societal impact. This study establishes a theoretical framework and proposes an integrated methodology to evaluate the societal impact of disrupted infrastructure in disaster events. Here, the societal impact is based on a water analysis and is defined as the percentage of the population in different levels of need satisfaction, which depends on the amount of water that people can obtain. Subsequently, based on water supply resilience analysis, an engineering model is proposed to estimate the water quantity during a disaster event considering the availability of tap water, emergency water, and bottled water. Meanwhile, physical interdependencies among the water supply system, emergency service, commercial facilities, electricity system, and transportation system are incorporated into an availability analysis of the three water sources. Finally, the proposed model is applied to the city of Osaka to validate its applicability and effectiveness. The results demonstrate that the proposed model can provide valuable information to decision-makers about the severity and spatial distribution of the societal impact of infrastructure disruption.
UT WOS:000608424400003
ER

PT J
AU Li, JX
   Xu, Y
   Wang, Y
   Li, M
   He, JH
   Liu, CC
   Schneider, KP
AF Li, Jiaxu
   Xu, Yin
   Wang, Ying
   Li, Meng
   He, Jinghan
   Liu, Chen-Ching
   Schneider, Kevin P.
TI Resilience-Motivated Distribution System Restoration Considering
   Electricity-Water-Gas Interdependency
DE Natural gas; Compressors; Water pumps; Water resources; Resilience;
   Maintenance engineering; Water; Resilience; service restoration;
   distribution system; water supply system; natural gas supply system;
   interdependency
ID SERVICE RESTORATION; LOAD RESTORATION; POWER; RECONFIGURATION; EXTREME
AB A major outage in the electricity distribution system may affect the operation of water and natural gas supply systems, leading to an interruption of multiple services to critical customers. Therefore, enhancing resilience of critical infrastructures requires joint efforts of multiple sectors. In this paper, a distribution system service restoration method considering the electricity-water-gas interdependency is proposed. The objective is to provide electricity, water, and natural gas supplies to critical customers in the desired ratio according to their needs after an extreme event. The operational constraints of electricity, water, and natural gas networks are considered. The characteristics of electricity-driven coupling components, including water pumps and gas compressors, are also modeled. Relaxation techniques are applied to nonconvex constraints posed by physical laws of those networks. Consequently, the restoration problem is formulated as a mixed-integer second-order cone program, which can readily be solved by the off-the-shelf solvers. The proposed method is validated by numerical simulations on electricity-water-gas integrated systems, developed based on benchmark models of the subsystems. The results indicate that considering the interdependency refines the allocation of limited generation resources and demonstrate the exactness of the proposed convex relaxation.
UT WOS:000709090100023
ER

PT J
AU Zohrabian, A
   Plata, SL
   Kim, DM
   Childress, AE
   Sanders, KT
AF Zohrabian, Angineh
   Plata, Sophia L.
   Kim, Dong Min
   Childress, Amy E.
   Sanders, Kelly T.
TI Leveraging the water-energy nexus to derive benefits for the electric
   grid through demand-side management in the water supply and wastewater
   sectors
DE demand response; flexibility; renewable energy; wastewater treatment;
   water supply
ID TREATMENT PLANTS; PUMPING SYSTEM; INTERMITTENT AERATION; MICRO
   HYDROPOWER; POWER-SYSTEMS; EFFICIENCY; STORAGE; OPTIMIZATION;
   STRATEGIES; INDUSTRIAL
AB Leveraging the potential flexibility of large electrical loads has become an attractive option for maintaining grid reliability, especially in electric grids with high penetrations of variable renewable energy. The water sector is a particularly attractive option for demand-side flexibility due to its vast water storage infrastructure, large interruptible pumping loads, and energy generation opportunities. Shifting the timing of water supply and wastewater utility operations can reduce peak load and temporally align energy-consuming activities with periods of cheap electricity prices and/or high renewable energy generation. This paper presents a general overview of demand-side management strategies in water and wastewater systems, focusing primarily on demand-response measures. We find that while there is consensus in the literature about the potential for water systems to provide flexible demand-side management services, there is a need for developing comprehensive water-energy models to examine the value of load management as a source of revenue for water utilities and as a source of flexibility for the electric grid. More experimental studies and simulation efforts are also needed to address the technical complexities and water quality concerns associated with interrupting water and wastewater utility operations.
   This article is categorized under:
   Engineering Water > Sustainable Engineering of Water
   Engineering Water > Planning Water
UT WOS:000623667400001
ER

PT J
AU Kammouh, O
   Cimellaro, GP
   Mahin, SA
AF Kammouh, Omar
   Cimellaro, Gian Paolo
   Mahin, Stephen A.
TI Downtime estimation and analysis of lifelines after an earthquake
DE Lifelines; Downtime; Restoration curves; Infrastructures; Seismic
   resilience; Recovery
ID RESILIENCE; SYSTEM
AB This paper provides an empirical probabilistic model for estimating the downtime of lifelines following earthquakes. Generally, the downtime of infrastructure varies according to several factors, including the characteristics of the exposed structure, the earthquake intensity, and the amount of available human resources. Having so many variables makes the process of estimating the downtime even harder. Therefore, it is necessary to have a simple and practical model to estimate the downtime of infrastructure systems. To do so, a large database has been collected from literature, which includes damage data for many earthquakes that took place in the last century. The database has been used to create restoration curves for four types of lifelines: Water distribution network, Gas network, Power system, and Telecommunication network. Different restoration curves have been developed based on several criteria, such as the earthquake magnitude, development level of the affected country, and countries with enough data. The restoration curves have been presented in terms of probability of recovery and time; the longer is the time after the disaster, the higher is the probability of the infrastructure to recover its functions.
UT WOS:000443663100027
ER

PT J
AU Mesa, MVC
   Di Maio, F
   Zio, E
AF Mesa, Maria Valentina Clavijo
   Di Maio, Francesco
   Zio, Enrico
TI Dynamic inoperability input-output modeling of a system of systems made
   of multi-state interdependent critical infrastructures
DE Critical infrastructures; System of systems; Interdependencies; Multiple
   states; Dynamic inoperability input-output model (DIIM); Network theory;
   Simulation; Power grid; Water network
ID RESILIENCE; UNCERTAINTY; RECOVERY; FAILURE; METRICS
AB Critical Infrastructures (CIs) are fundamental for the operation of societies. They function interdependently in a system-of-systems configuration. Interdependencies are unveiled also when CIs become inoperable or only partially operable due to disruptions. The state of partial or full inoperability of a disrupted CI can cascade to the interdependent CIs connected to it in the system of systems, causing various degrees of inoperability. This paper presents a novel approach for modeling the disruption cascade dynamics in multi-state interdependent CIs. A Dynamic Inoperability Input-output Model (DIIM) is proposed to describe the multi-state transition dynamics of the CIs. A case study is worked out to show the application of the proposed approach to a system of systems formed by interdependent power and water networks.
UT WOS:001510091200002
ER

PT J
AU Mooney, EL
   Almoghathawi, Y
   Barker, K
AF Mooney, Elyssa L.
   Almoghathawi, Yasser
   Barker, Kash
TI Facility Location for Recovering Systems of Interdependent Networks
DE Facility location; interdependent infrastructure systems; multiobjective
   optimization; resilience; restoration
ID INFRASTRUCTURE SYSTEMS; RESILIENCE; RESTORATION; METRICS; DESIGN
AB Modern communities heavily depend on critical infrastructure networks, such as power, water, gas, telecommunications, and transportation. These infrastructure networks are often dependent upon each other for operation. The interdependence of infrastructure networks makes them more vulnerable to disruptive events, such as malevolent attacks, natural disasters, and random failures. Since daily life requires the effective operation of these networks, it is important that they are able to withstand or recover quickly from a disruption. To return the networks to some desired level of performance, work crews must be scheduled to restore certain disrupted components (nodes or links). The proposed model is a multiobjective mixed-integer programming formulation that integrates 1) the order of link and node recovery, 2) the scheduling of recovery tasks to work crews, and 3) the location of facilities (or resources), where each work crew should originate from to effectively facilitate the recovery process. This study demonstrates the use of the model through an illustrative example of two interdependent infrastructure networks that exhibit behaviors of electric power and water networks. Considering four disruption scenarios, the example illustrates how recovery may change by varying the number of facilities established for work crews in each network.
UT WOS:000459697700046
ER

PT J
AU Adepu, S
   Kandasamy, NK
   Zhou, JY
   Mathur, A
AF Adepu, Sridhar
   Kandasamy, Nandha Kumar
   Zhou, Jianying
   Mathur, Aditya
TI Attacks on smart grid: power supply interruption and malicious power
   generation
DE Critical infrastructure; Cyber-physical systems; Smart-grid security;
   Industrial control system; Cyber-attacks; SCADA security; Power
   interruption attacks; Malicious power generation
ID CYBER; SECURITY; CYBERATTACKS; IMPACT
AB Electric power supply is an essential component for several sectors including manufacturing, healthcare, building management, water distribution, and transportation systems. Hence, any interruption in electric power is likely to have an undesirable impact on the overall operation of any residential or commercial ecosystem. The serious impacts of power supply interruption attacks have been realized in the recent cyber incidents such as the Ukraine power blackout. It is also evident from recent incidents that both network and process vulnerabilities are crucial for an adversary to cause an adverse impact on the operation. This paper reports an investigation into power supply interruption and malicious power generation attacks focusing on process and network vulnerabilities. The investigation was conducted in two steps: First, a vulnerability assessment was conducted on a fully operational electric power testbed. Next, the vulnerabilities discovered were exploited to perform different types of power supply interruption attacks and malicious power generation attacks. The attacks were executed using control code modification and SMA, a PV converter manufacturer, portal manipulation. The attacks reported here are useful for researchers and smart-grid operators to design and develop effective protection, detection, and response mechanisms.
UT WOS:000519531800003
ER

PT C
AU Zabasta, A
   Casaliccio, E
   Kunicina, N
   Ribickis, L
AF Zabasta, A.
   Casaliccio, E.
   Kunicina, N.
   Ribickis, L.
GP IEEE
TI A numerical model for evaluation power outages impact on water
   infrastructure services sustainability
DE Estimation technique; Fault tolerance; Modelling; Simulation
AB Critical infrastructure's (CI) (electricity, heat, water, information and communication technology networks) security, stability and reliability are closely related to the interaction phenomenon. Due to the increasing amount of data transferred, increases dependence on telecommunications and internet services, the data integrity and security is becoming a very important aspect for the utility services providers and energy suppliers. In such circumstances, the need is increasing for methods and tools that enable infrastructure managers to evaluate and predict their critical infrastructure operations as the failures, emergency or service degradation occur in other related infrastructures. Using a simulation model, is experimentally tested a method that allows to explore the water supply network nodes the average down time dependence on the battery life time and the battery replacement time cross-correlations, within the parameters set, when outages in power infrastructure arise and taking into account also the impact of telecommunication nodes. The model studies the real case of Latvian city Ventspils. The proposed approach for the analysis of critical infrastructures interdependencies will be useful for practical adoption of methods, models and metrics for CI operators and stakeholders.
UT WOS:000361460000021
ER

PT J
AU Yates, D
   Szinai, JK
   Jones, AD
AF Yates, D.
   Szinai, J. K.
   Jones, A. D.
TI Modeling the Water Systems of the Western US to Support
   Climate-Resilient Electricity System Planning
DE water; energy; Nexus; multi-sector dynamics; climate change
ID CHANGE IMPACTS; UNITED-STATES; HYDROPOWER GENERATION; EMISSIONS
   MITIGATION; LAND-USE; ENERGY; FUTURE; CALIFORNIA; DEMAND; NEXUS
AB Electricity and water systems in the Western US (WUS) are closely connected, with hydropower comprising 20% of total annual WUS generation, and electricity related to water comprising about 7% of total WUS electricity use. Because of these interdependencies, the threat of climate change to WUS resources will likely have compounding electricity impacts on the Western Interconnect grid. This study describes a WUS-wide water system model with a particular emphasis on estimating climate impacts on hydropower generation and water-related electricity use, which can be linked with a grid expansion model to support climate-resilient electricity planning. The water system model combines climatically-driven physical hydrology and management of both water supply and demand allocation, and is applied to an ensemble of 15 climate scenarios out to 2050. Model results show decreasing streamflow in key basins of the WUS under most scenarios. Annual water-related electricity use increases up to 4%, and by up to 6% during the summer months, driven by growing agricultural demands met increasingly through a shift toward energy-intensive groundwater to replace declining surface water. Total annual hydropower generation changes by +5% to -20% by mid-century but declines in most scenarios, with decreases in summer generation by up to nearly -30%. Water-related electricity use increases tend to coincide with hydropower generation declines, annually and seasonally, demonstrating the importance of concurrently evaluating the climate signal on both water-for-energy and energy-for-water to inform planning for grid reliability and decarbonization goals.
   Electricity and water systems in the Western United States (WUS) have a strong dependency. Water fuels hydropower generation and electricity is used to pump, transport, treat, heat, and dispose of water. Climate change poses a serious threat to water availability in the WUS and is likely to also affect hydropower generation and electricity use related to water. This study develops a WUS water system model to evaluate the impact of a set of climate change scenarios on the dynamic interplay between water availability and demand and hydropower generation and electricity use by the water sector by 2050. We find that in many key basins, streamflow decreases under the climate scenarios. At the same time, reliance on groundwater increases to meet growing agricultural water demand. Hydropower generation shows decreases in most cases while energy use related to water increases. Because these hydropower generation declines tend to occur during periods when electricity demand for water grows, electricity grid planners in the Western Interconnect will benefit from this type of study by informing future grid buildouts that maintain reliability and decarbonization goals.
   Interactions among hydro-climate, hydropower, and water's energy use are critical for evaluating Western US (WUS) water-energy climate risksUnder climate change, our WUS water model finds declining streamflows, growing agricultural demands, and increased groundwater useWith warming and drying, water-related energy use grows while hydropower generation decreases under most climate scenarios by mid-century
UT WOS:001131509200001
ER

PT J
AU Wang, YQ
   Lior, N
AF Wang, Yongqing
   Lior, Noam
TI Performance analysis of combined humidified gas turbine power generation
   and multi-effect thermal vapor compression desalination systems - Part
   1: The desalination unit and its combination with a steam-injected gas
   turbine power system
DE integrated power and water system; Humidified gas turbine; multi-effect
   thermal vapor compression desalination; energy and exergy analyses
ID WATER RECOVERY; PLANTS; COGENERATION; HEAT
AB Humidified gas turbines (HGT) have been identified as a promising way of producing power. The use of the steam injected gas turbine (STIG) HGT cycle in a combined power and water desalination system was analyzed using energy and exergy performance criteria. A brief description and rationale of the background of HGT cycles and dual-purpose power and water systems is given. A thermal desalination unit was modeled and analyzed, and the results led to the selection of a multi-effect thermal vapor compression (METVC) unit for producing fresh water from seawater for both general use and humidification; then the performance of a STIG-based combined system was investigated. The analysis performed improved the understanding of the combined STIG power and water desalination process and of ways to improve and optimize it. Some specific conclusions are that: (1) a METVC desalination system is preferred to a multi-effect evaporation one when the pressure of the motive steam is high enough, >similar to 3 bar, to run a steam jet ejector; (2) the steam injection rate in the STIG cycle has a strong effect on water and power production, offering good flexibility for design and operation; (3) higher pressure ratios and higher steam injection rates in the STIG cycle increase power generation, but decrease water production rates, and higher turbine inlet temperatures increased both power and water production; (4) a distinct water production gain can be obtained by recovering the stack gas energy. The results indicate that such dual-purpose systems have good synergy, not only in fuel utilization, but also in operation and design flexibility.
UT WOS:000240664900009
ER

PT J
AU Hu, GX
   Yang, Z
   Zhu, MH
   Huang, L
   Xiong, NX
AF Hu, Guoxiong
   Yang, Zhong
   Zhu, Maohu
   Huang, Li
   Xiong, Naixue
TI Automatic classification of insulator by combining k-nearest neighbor
   algorithm with multi-type feature for the Internet of Things
DE Multi-type feature; Insulator inspection; Complicated background;
   Internet of Things; Sensor networks
ID COLOR; RECOGNITION; RETRIEVAL
AB New algorithms and architectures in the context of 5G shall be explored to ensure the efficiency, robustness, and consistency in variable application environments which concern different issues, such as the smart grid, water supply, gas monitoring, etc. In power line monitoring, we can get lots of images through a wide range of sensors and can ensure the safe operation of the smart grid by analyzing images. Feature extraction is critical to identify insulators in the aerial image. Existing approaches have primarily addressed this problem by using a single type of feature such as color feature, texture feature, or shape feature. However, a single type of feature usually leads to poor classification rates and missed detection in identifying insulators. Aiming to fully describe the characteristics of insulator and enhance the robustness of insulator against the complex background in aerial images, we combine three types of feature including color feature, texture feature, and shape feature towards a multi-type feature. Then, the multi-type feature is integrated with k-nearest neighbor classifier for automatic classifying insulators. Our experiment with 4500 aerial images demonstrates that the recognition rate is 99% by using this multi-type feature. Comparing to a single type of feature, our method yielded a better classification performance.
UT WOS:000447870600001
ER

PT J
AU Lima, CAF
   Navas, JRP
AF Froes Lima, Carlos Alberto
   Portillo Navas, Jose Ricardo
TI Smart metering and systems to support a conscious use of water and
   electricity
DE Smart Grid; Communication; Consumption management; Efficiency; Smart
   sub-metering
AB Brazilian water and electricity utilities demand management tools to allow their customers to analyze, monitor and control their consumption of these goods. From a social perspective, efficiency requires involved and active of clients who can monitor and audit the actual consumed amounts as well as the values saved as new habits are established.
   In response to this twofold demand, the proposed system automates remote metering and sub-metering of water and electricity (internal to the residence, installed at interest points) and is integrated into a structured knowledge tool. This integration environment receives the collected electricity and water meter measurements. It provides customers and utility companies with compiled reports containing the historical use, daily and hourly forecasts, and projected savings due to changes in consumption habits and/or use of more efficient equipment. For developing countries with social diversity, such as Brazil, this tool can make a difference in raising awareness by identifying actual consumption.
   Moreover, this solution adds a new component to the relationship between energy businesses and clients/customers, who can audit and verify their consumption as well as check the reliability of the energy/water service provided. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000309243700060
ER

PT J
AU Mu, MF
   Zhang, ZX
   Cai, XM
   Tang, QH
AF Mu, Mengfei
   Zhang, Zhenxing
   Cai, Ximing
   Tang, Quhong
TI Seasonal Risk Assessment of Water-Electricity Nexus Systems under Water
   Consumption Policy Constraint
ID FIRED POWER-PLANTS; RELATIVE-HUMIDITY; CLIMATE-CHANGE; GENERATION;
   ENERGY; VULNERABILITY; RELIABILITY; IMPACTS
AB Previous studies have estimated power plant cooling water consumption based on the long-term average cooling water consumption intensity (WI: water consumption per unit of electricity generation) at an annual scale. However, the impacts of the seasonality of WI and streamflow on electricity generation are less well understood. In this study, a risk assessment method is developed to explore the seasonal risk of water-electricity nexus based on the Integrated Environmental Control Model, which can simulate variable WIs in response to daily weather conditions and avoid underestimation in WIs as well as nexus risk during dry seasons. Three indicators, reliability, maximum time to recovery, and total power generation loss, are proposed to quantify the seasonal nexus risk under water consumption policy constraint represented by the allowed maximum percentage of water consumption to streamflow. The applications of the method in two representative watersheds demonstrate that the nexus risk is highly seasonal and is greatly impacted by the seasonal variability of streamflow rather than annual average water resources conditions on which most previous studies are based. The nexus is found more risky in the watershed with almost double mean annual streamflow and greater streamflow variability, compared with the watershed with less streamflow variability.
UT WOS:000526418000010
ER

PT J
AU Liu, H
   Tatano, H
   Pflug, G
   Hochrainer-Stigler, S
AF Liu, Huan
   Tatano, Hirokazu
   Pflug, Georg
   Hochrainer-Stigler, Stefan
TI Post-disaster recovery in industrial sectors: A Markov process analysis
   of multiple lifeline disruptions
DE Lifeline disruption; Recovery; Markov process; Economic impacts
   analysis; 2011 Great East Japan earthquake
ID CRITICAL-INFRASTRUCTURE; NATURAL DISASTERS; ECONOMIC-IMPACT; RESILIENCE;
   MODEL; EARTHQUAKE; FRAMEWORK; INTERDEPENDENCIES; CAPACITY; SYSTEMS
AB Lifeline disruptions can represent a serious economic threat at various scales. However, firm-level empirical evidence regarding the consequences and reliability of lifeline services, and how lifeline service disruptions impact on economic losses after disasters, is still lacking. This study applies a temporal, non-homogeneous, Markov process approach that explicitly considers multiple lifeline service disruptions. This approach is used to quantitatively estimate the impacts of multiple lifeline disruptions on business production capacity losses. The model is illustrated based on the 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake case study with detailed information obtained from individual business recovery data. The result indicates that the restoration of lifeline systems during disruptions should consider each business service given that it significantly affects business production capacity recovery. For example, the case study results indicate that if electrical power, water and gas are disrupted, restoration of electrical power supply yields the highest influence on production capacity improvement, amounting to 15% per day on average, compared with 10% per day for gas restorations, and 8% per day for water restoration. The proposed model can provide information to business managers and policymakers on the optimum recovery strategy and on how to mitigate economic losses in disruption event cases.
UT WOS:000606675400010
ER

PT J
AU Almoghathawi, Y
   Barker, K
AF Almoghathawi, Yasser
   Barker, Kash
TI Restoring Community Structures in Interdependent Infrastructure Networks
DE Resilience; Critical infrastructure; Optimization; Power systems;
   Natural gas; Programming; Time measurement; Interdependent networks;
   community structure; resilience; restoration; optimization
ID VULNERABILITY ANALYSIS; SEISMIC RESILIENCE; SYSTEM RESILIENCE;
   RESTORATION; METRICS; MODEL; SIMULATION; RECOVERY; DESIGN
AB Community structures exist in many infrastructure networks (e.g., electric power, water distribution, and natural gas) where each network is partitioned into sets of densely connected components with sparse connections between them. Such community structures are formed in infrastructure networks based on physical connections within each network or their spatial characteristics, among others. However, infrastructure networks depend on one another for proper functionality. Though the interdependencies across infrastructure networks can improve their efficiency, they make them highly vulnerable to any disruption. This paper studies the restoration problem of community structures in a system of interdependent infrastructure networks following a disruptive event from the perspective of their resilience. Accordingly, we propose an optimization model using mixed-integer programming to restore community structures in each infrastructure network with the goal of enhancing the resilience of a system of interdependent infrastructure networks. Furthermore, we propose multiple community structures importance measures to prioritize their restoration process. Such measures could be used in solving the restoration model of community structures. The restoration model and importance measures are illustrated through a generated system of interdependent infrastructure networks.
UT WOS:000566353500034
ER

PT J
AU Joshi, G
   Mohagheghi, S
AF Joshi, Govind
   Mohagheghi, Salman
TI Optimal Operation of Combined Energy and Water Systems for Community
   Resilience against Natural Disasters
DE energy optimization; demand response; electric microgrid; natural
   disasters; power system resilience; water micro-net
ID STOCHASTIC OPTIMIZATION; DEMAND RESPONSE; CLIMATE-CHANGE;
   INFRASTRUCTURE; MANAGEMENT; FRAMEWORK; NETWORKS; STORAGE; WIND
AB One of the most critical challenges for modern power systems is to reliably supply electricity to its consumers during and in the aftermath of natural disasters. As our dependence on electrical power has increased over the years, long-term power outages can lead to devastating impacts on affected communities. Furthermore, power outages can halt the operation of water treatment plants, leading to shortages in clean water, which is essential during post-disaster recovery. One way to address this is to temporarily reconfigure power and water networks into localized networks, i.e., electric microgrids and water micro-nets, that utilize local resources to supply local demand independently of the main power grid and/or water network. Utilizing distributed energy resources such as wind and solar and treating wastewater locally for potable reuse can provide the operational flexibility for such systems to operate sustainably. However, due to uncertainties in both renewable energy generation and electric/water consumption, ensuring sustainable operation is a challenging task. In this paper, an optimal operational strategy is proposed for an islanded microgrid/micro-net, considering the stochastic nature of renewable energy resources, electric demand, and water demand. An energy storage system is modeled to address the uncertainty in power generation and demand, in conjunction with local water storage and wastewater treatment to accommodate variable water demands. A two-stage stochastic programming model is formulated and solved to determine an optimal operation strategy for the combined system.
UT WOS:000806945200001
ER

PT J
AU Jahromi, HR
   Gitizadeh, M
   Sheikh, M
   Ghasemi, AA
AF Jahromi, Hamzeh Roghanian
   Gitizadeh, Mohsen
   Sheikh, Morteza
   Ghasemi, Ali Akbar
TI A two-stage risk mitigation-aware energy scheduling for integrated
   water-power system with hybrid energy convertors
DE IWPSs; Risk management; Sensitivity function; Proposed Jacobian matrix;
   Energy strategy
ID RELIABILITY ASSESSMENT; HEAT
AB The increasing complexity and interconnectedness of Integrated Water-Power Systems (IWPS) are increasingly becoming riskability against unauthorized intrusions. This complexity requires innovative solutions to ensure system resilience, operational efficiency, and risk mitigation. This paper introduces a novel two-stage approach to managing these intricate IWPSs by integrating sensitivity analysis, risk assessment, and optimization methodologies. In this regard, first the key decision variables are identified by sensitivity analyzing and their impact on the system state variables is evaluated. To evaluate risks, particularly in the context of cyber threats such as False Data Injection Attacks (FDIA), a Proposed Jacobian Matrix (PJM) analysis is then introduced. Additionally, this paper offers a hybrid two-stage structure aimed at enhancing risk management in IWPS drawing on insights from the Proposed Jacobian Matrix (PJM) analysis. To overcome the IWPS's vulnerabilities and enhance optimal performance across operating conditions, the framework employed a multi-layered approach utilizing three key energy converters: water-to-thermal conversion, electricity-to-thermal conversion, and photovoltaic system within IWPS. Meanwhile, the first stage begins to analyze the hybrid structure of energy converters with a focus on risk minimization, specifically aimed at reducing the IWPS's vulnerability to potential disruptions and cyber threats. The second stage is defined based on a cost-effective operational strategy aimed at optimizing the decision variables across the hybrid structure applied in the first stage. The proposed framework is carried out in a studied IWPS with 36 electrical buses, 5 thermal buses, and 5 water buses across an interconnected network. The maximum estimated economic impact is 1.6 x 1013, indicating that the threat from Foreign Data Injection Attacks (FDIA) to the electrical network is the highest, with a risk rating of 3.89. In comparison, the gas network has a risk rating of 3.58, and the water network has a rating of 3.64. Comparative studies show that the PJM technique provides more accurate and consistent risk assessments than Conditional Value-at-Risk (CVaR). Furthermore, the proposed architecture ensures a steady reduction in overall operating expenses while decreasing the Integrated Water and Power Supply (IWPS) risk coefficient from 5.45 to 3.17.
UT WOS:001582861400008
ER

PT C
AU Ramos, HM
   Mello, M
AF Ramos, H. M.
   Mello, M.
BE Zhang, CK
   Tang, HW
TI CONCEPTION AND DESIGN OF A MICRO-HYDRO IN A WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
DE micro-hydro; water supply systems; power implementation; losses control
AB In the past, in a more traditionalistic approach, the managing entities of water supply systems, of public, private or mixing nature, were worried exclusively about economic aspects that guaranteed the quality and amount of water to the users. Nowadays, the decision makers cannot be only oriented by economic aspects, being fundamental to consider other factors, such as performance analysis, reliability improvements and operational costs savings appearing, thus, the conception of integrated non conventional solutions. This study presents the integrated solution of hydro implementation in water supply systems to benefit of an already existing installation in which the demands are guaranteed for the population. Moreover, the system presents an available potential energy that can be used by a micro-turbine for energy production. This energy can be used locally or to be sell to the national electric grid depending on the local advantages. A case study with viability analysis of the installation of a micro-turbine (or pump as turbine whenever the discharges will be so low that it will be economically unviable the installation of a turbine) in a water supplying system is presented, at the entrance of a water treatment plant for human consumption.
UT WOS:000268750701185
ER

PT J
AU Ghassemi, A
   Hu, MQ
   Zhou, Z
AF Ghassemi, Afshin
   Hu, Mengqi
   Zhou, Zhi
TI Robust Planning Decision Model for an Integrated Water System
DE Integrated water system; Smart water infrastructure; Decision under
   uncertainty; Robust optimization; Mixed-integer programming
ID RESOURCES MANAGEMENT; GENETIC ALGORITHM; OPTIMIZATION; DESIGN;
   SIMULATION; NETWORKS
AB A critical issue faced by the water industry is to efficiently manage limited water supplies to satisfy water demand from different sections (e.g.,industrial, agricultural, energy and residential) and provide fresh and reliable sources of water for people's everyday life. Most existing research focuses on either water consumption planning (e.g.,supply-demand balance) or water postconsumption planning (e.g.,wastewater planning). It is expected to be more cost-effective to integrate the water consumption and postconsumption planning into a holistic model since they are highly interdependent. In this research, a closed-loop integrated water system including sources, water plants, end users, and wastewater systems is modeled using the network theory, and a robust planning decision model is developed to minimize the total system costs including operation costs (e.g.,water production and distribution costs, and wastewater treatment costs) and penalty costs associated with directly emitting untreated wastewater to the environment. Various levels of uncertainties from both water demand and pipeline efficiencies are considered. Three sets of experiments are developed to test the effectiveness of the proposed decision model. The experimental results conclude that (1)the integrated decision approach can achieve more cost savings compared to separated decision processes for both the deterministic and stochastic scenarios; (2)the authors' proposed robust model can provide good balance between system robustness and cost; and (3)the integrated water system is more cost-effective when the water processing cost is dynamic, which highlights the benefits of the inventory and on-site third-party water plants. Analogous to the smart power-grid innovation, which employs on-site generation and storage systems to improve energy efficiency and environmental sustainability, the authors' proposed model demonstrates the benefits of using on-site inventory and third-party water plants to renovate the existing water infrastructure for more cost savings and reduced environmental impacts. (C) 2017 American Society of Civil Engineers.
UT WOS:000398591200008
ER

PT J
AU Jiang, NN
   Xie, ZM
   Wu, RD
   Ouyang, ZC
   Liu, H
   Zhuo, XL
   Chen, AZ
   Wang, SB
AF Jiang, Nina
   Xie, Zongming
   Wu, Rude
   Ouyang, Zhicheng
   Liu, Huan
   Zhuo, Xiaolu
   Chen, Aizheng
   Wang, Shi-Bin
TI Photothermal Heat-Storage Nanostructure-Assisted Water-Electricity
   Cogeneration System with Dual Solar Energy Inputs and High-Efficiency
   Heat Utilization
DE plasmonic metal nanocrystals; plasmonic photothermal conversion; solar
   evaporation; water-electricity cogeneration
ID GENERATION
AB Conventional water-electricity cogeneration systems combining solar-driven interface evaporators (SIEs) and solar-thermal-electric generators (STGs) suffer from limited overall efficiency due to their reliance on a single solar energy input. To address this limitation, a novel system is developed with dual solar inputs that simultaneously utilizes conduction heat and steam enthalpy. Au/Ag-Pd nanostructures loaded with phase-change material (Au/Ag-Pd/PCM) are designed as visible-light absorbers, enabling photothermal storage and reduced thermal losses. By constructing Janus nano/micro structures of Au/Ag-Pd/PCM/sulfonated polystyrene on a water supply layer, optimal balance between thermal energy and water content within the SIE is achieved. The optimized SIE is coupled with a STG to form the complete cogeneration system through heat-recovery pathways. Benefiting from the dual solar inputs and efficient heat utilization, the system demonstrates outstanding performance metrics including an evaporation rate of 3.68 kg m-2 h-1, a solar-to-vapor efficiency of 104.82%, and a maximum power density of 1.55 W m-2 in 3.5 wt.% NaCl brine under 1 sun. Outdoor testing of the scaled-up system confirms stable freshwater production (approximate to 15.5 kg m-2 daily) and scalable power generation. This work offers new insights into energy input design and heat recovery mechanisms for enhancing coupled water and electricity generation.
UT WOS:001595481800001
ER

PT J
AU Zhao, X
   Liao, XW
   Zhang, C
   Zhang, XX
   Mao, GQ
   Zhang, S
   Tillotson, MR
AF Zhao, Xu
   Liao, Xiawei
   Zhang, Chao
   Zhang, Xinxin
   Mao, Ganquan
   Zhang, Shuo
   Tillotson, Martin R.
TI Unveiling the dynamic of water-electricity conflict within and beyond
   megacity boundary
DE Water footprint; Water scarcity footprint; Water related vulnerability;
   Electricity production
ID THERMOELECTRIC-POWER GENERATION; VULNERABILITY; ENERGY; FOOTPRINT;
   CLIMATE
AB Electricity demand in megacities may exert substantial stress on water resources, which is often expressed through the water scarcity footprint for electricity consumption (WSFE). Conversely, water scarcity may constrain electricity production, leading to increased vulnerability for megacities electricity production. The WSFE and the water related vulnerability of electricity production reflect two aspects of water-electricity con-flict. This varies over time by both the amount and location of electricity production. However, no studies have conducted time-series analysis to evaluate the trends of these two indicators, both in terms of severity and spatial characteristics. Our study focused on evaluating trends in water-electricity conflict both within and beyond megacity administrative boundaries. China?s four provincial-level megacities, i.e. Beijing, Tianjin, Shanghai and Chongqing, were chosen as case studies. The results show that water related vulnerability of electricity pro-duction in Tianjin, Beijing, Shanghai and Chongqing was diverse and can be classified as extreme, severe, moderate and minor, respectively. Between 2006 and 2016, the WSFE of Tianjin experienced an increasing trend, and its water related vulnerability of electricity production remained at the highest level. Beijing?s WSFE has decreased, but its water related vulnerability of electricity production has increased. These differing trends highlight the need for joint reductions to both WSFE and water related vulnerability of electricity production in mitigating water-electricity conflict.
UT WOS:000634988100004
ER

PT J
AU Moglen, RL
   Barth, J
   Gupta, S
   Kawai, E
   Klise, K
   Leibowicz, BD
AF Moglen, Rachel L.
   Barth, Julius
   Gupta, Shagun
   Kawai, Eiji
   Klise, Katherine
   Leibowicz, Benjamin D.
TI A nexus approach to infrastructure resilience planning under uncertainty
DE Infrastructure hardening; Resilience; Stochastic optimization; Disaster
   planning; Critical infrastructure systems; Energy-water nexus
ID POWER-FLOW; SYSTEMS; RESTORATION; FRAMEWORK; RISK; SIMULATION;
   DISASTERS; DECISIONS; NETWORKS; IMPACTS
AB Natural disasters pose serious threats to Critical Infrastructure (CI) systems like power and drinking water, sometimes disrupting service for days, weeks, or months. Decision makers can mitigate this risk by hardening CI systems through actions like burying power lines and installing backup generation for water pumping. However, the inherent uncertainty in natural disasters coupled with the high costs of hardening activities make disaster planning a challenging task. We develop a disaster planning framework that recommends asset -specific hardening projects across interdependent power and water networks facing the uncertainty of natural disasters. We demonstrate the utility of our model by applying it to Guayama, Puerto Rico, focusing on the risk posed by hurricanes. Our results show that our proposed optimization approach identifies hardening decisions that maintain a high level of service post-disaster. The results also emphasize power system hardening due to the dependency of the water system on power for water treatment and a higher vulnerability of the power network to hurricane damage. Finally, choosing optimal hardening decisions by hedging with respect to all potential hurricane scenarios and their probabilities produces results that perform better on extreme events and are less variable compared to optimizing for only the average hurricane scenario.
UT WOS:000891282800001
ER

PT J
AU Tabucchi, T
   Davidson, R
   Brink, S
AF Tabucchi, Taronne
   Davidson, Rachel
   Brink, Susan
TI Simulation of post-earthquake water supply system restoration
DE earthquake; water supply; restoration; discrete event simulation;
   lifeline modelling
AB This paper describes a discrete event simulation model of post-earthquake restoration for the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power water supply system. It mimics the real-life process in detail, simulating the movement of different types of crews as they inspect, reroute around, isolate, and repair system damage. For any given earthquake, the model provides restoration curves with uncertainty bounds, maps showing the spatial distribution of outages over time, and crew and repair material usage information. Results for the 1994 Northridge earthquake suggest the model is capable of accurately estimating the time and spatial sequence of the restoration. It can be useful for loss estimation and resilience assessment, evaluating the effectiveness of hypothetical restoration strategies, and improving understanding of the restoration process and its key determinants. This is the first application of discrete event simulation to post-disaster water supply restoration, and one of the first for any infrastructure system.
UT WOS:000284221500001
ER

PT J
AU Mukhtar, A
   Gaaib, JN
   Abood, ASA
   Abd Balla, HH
   Atamurotov, F
   Benti, NE
AF Mukhtar, Azfarizal
   Gaaib, Jawdat N.
   Abood, Ahmed Sabeeh Abed
   Abd Balla, Hyder Hassan
   Atamurotov, Farruh
   Benti, Natei Ermias
TI An integrated renewable energy and machine learning framework for techno
   economic analysis of water and energy nexus management in arid climates
DE Advanced water treatment technologies; Energy recovery systems; Machine
   learning; Renewable energy; Smart grid integration; Water-energy nexus
ID SYSTEMS; INACTIVATION; PROGRESS; TIME
AB Water management in arid regions, such as Basra, Iraq, faces escalating challenges due to water scarcity and increasing energy demand. This study investigates the integration of machine learning with renewable energy technologies to optimize water and energy efficiency in such environments. A multi-scenario approach was employed, combining advanced water treatment technologies, energy recovery systems, and smart grid integration to assess their impact on sustainability. This study evaluated a comprehensive techno-economic analysis of the integration of machine learning models and renewable energy technologies, marking a significant step toward more sustainable and efficient water-energy nexus management in arid climates. The solar-powered UV disinfection system reduced energy consumption by 30%, while membrane filtration techniques minimized water loss by 20%. The adoption of pressure recovery turbines improved energy efficiency by 25%, resulting in significant energy savings of 800 kWh annually and a reduction of 400 kgCO2 emissions. Smart grid systems enhanced operational efficiency, reducing energy wastage by 15% and improving water distribution by 25%. Machine learning models, including the M5 model tree and recurrent neural networks (RNN), were applied to predict and optimize system performance, highlighting their ability to handle complex, non-linear relationships between energy and water variables. The results proposed a scalable framework for integrating machine learning-driven renewable solutions into water-energy systems in water-stressed regions, addressing global challenges in water management, supporting climate adaptation strategies, and contributing to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
UT WOS:001586153600036
ER

PT J
AU He, X
   Cha, EJ
AF He, Xian
   Cha, Eun Jeong
TI DIN II: incorporation of multi-level interdependencies and uncertainties
   for infrastructure system recovery modeling
DE Civil infrastructure systems; Dynamic Integrated Network model;
   hurricane; interdependency; recovery; uncertainty
ID HURRICANE KATRINA; NEW-ORLEANS; RESILIENCE; NETWORKS; POWER;
   RESTORATION; RISK; VULNERABILITY; SIMULATION; STRATEGIES
AB Modelling the performance of interdependent infrastructure systems paves the way for strategic infrastructure disaster risk management. The nature of different systems makes it hard to model every system at the same resolution. Modelling different systems at different resolutions can also reduce the computational time for more efficient infrastructure resilience planning, especially when large-scale infrastructure systems are considered. This paper categorises the infrastructure interdependencies into three levels based on the modelling resolution: system-to-system, system-to-facility, and facility-to-facility. The applicability and limitations for each category are identified. The version II of the Dynamic Integrated Network model (DIN II) is introduced to model the infrastructure recovery with incorporating multi-level interdependencies and the uncertainties in the modelling process, which improve the flexibility of the model and increase the accuracy of the modelling results. The DIN II is applied to simulate the performance of interdependent power, water, cellular, transportation and social systems in Galveston City, TX under Hurricane Ike (2008) with considering multi-level interdependencies. Model comparison results imply that the power restoration time will be underestimated if no interdependencies or only facility-to-facility level interdependencies are considered.
UT WOS:000569206800001
ER

PT J
AU Ghasemi, R
   Doko, G
   Petrik, M
   Wosnik, M
   Lu, ZM
   Foster, DL
   Mo, WW
AF Ghasemi, Roozbeh
   Doko, Gersi
   Petrik, Marek
   Wosnik, Martin
   Lu, Zhongming
   Foster, Diane L.
   Mo, Weiwei
TI Deep reinforcement learning-based optimization of an island energy-water
   microgrid system
DE AI-based energy management; Smart grid control; Dynamic process-based
   simulation; Fitted value iteration; Multi-objective optimization;
   Sustainability and reliability
ID MANAGEMENT
AB Islanded microgrids often struggle with limited resources and heavy reliance on fossil fuels. This study optimizes an island energy-water microgrid using reinforcement learning (RL) to schedule the water system as a virtual battery. Using the Shoals Marine Laboratory microgrid as a testbed, a dynamic model simulating water and energy interactions was integrated with an RL algorithm to improve profit, sustainability, and reliability. The RL scenario outperformed the status quo, leading to a 7.04 % overall improvement in the equally weighted total score. It also exceeded a single-objective, heuristic management approach in profit and reliability, though slightly reducing sustainability. The RL model strategically reserves battery storage for peak renewable energy generation and extends water system operation to circumvent pumping constraints. Increasing desalination rates further improved performance, while larger water tank capacity offered minimal advantages. Future research may expand RL decision space to incorporate energy system actions for enhanced benefits.
UT WOS:001512467500001
ER

PT C
AU Telschow, A
   Kamps, O
   Mai, O
   Voroshilov, A
   Böringer, R
AF Telschow, Arndt
   Kamps, Oliver
   Mai, Oliver
   Voroshilov, Artemy
   Boeringer, Rene
GP IEEE
TI A new method for assessing resilience and predicting outages in power
   grids
DE critical infrastructure; power grid failure; resilience; tipping point;
   machine learning; power grid; renewable energy; smart meter; time series
   analysis; water supply systems
AB One of the major challenges in managing power grids is to continuously balance supply and demand. Otherwise, the system easily gets out of control and reaches a tipping point where there is a sudden breakdown in functionality, such as a power grid failure. Here, we present a new method for the assessing of power grids that makes it possible to predict whether a power grid is approaching a tipping point and requires special protective measures, or whether it is in an area of high resilience. The core of the analysis is the calculation of a network resilience index (NRI) directly from time series data of power grids. Mathematically, the index is rooted in nonlinear dynamics and bifurcation theory. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the approach using realistic Kuramoto network simulations and present results for scenarios with power grid outages due to infrastructure degradation and extreme weather events.
UT WOS:001562630300023
ER

PT J
AU Massons, G
   Gilabert-Oriol, G
   Slagt, M
   Balakrishnan, R
   Pandya, H
   Elsayed, A
   Alomar, H
AF Massons, Gerard
   Gilabert-Oriol, Guillem
   Slagt, Marc
   Balakrishnan, Rajesh
   Pandya, Hardik
   Elsayed, Alaa
   Alomar, Harith
TI Testing of DuPontTM B-Free™ technology in Arabic Gulf water at Sharjah
   Electricity & Water Authority (SEWA) Hamriyah Desalination Plant
DE Biofouling; Reverse osmosis; Media; Bacteria; Desalination
AB Increasing water and power demand in the Middle East requires that desalination plants maximize overall efficiency and operate on the lowest production. Despite the extended pretreatment in the Hamriyah plant, the deteriorating quality of seawater over the last years, the heavy marine biologi-cal growth and the extended red tide have imposed serious challenges for seawater reverse osmosis (SWRO) operation. Sharjah Electricity & Water Authority (SEWA) aims to achieve the best long-term performance and reliability to maximize plant availability throughout the year. DuPont (TM) B-FreeTM creates an instant and sustained biostatic environment for the downstream RO operations and is resilient to upstream upsets. This pretreatment will allow water production to be maintained during all regular variations in seawater quality throughout the seasons and in future. A demo unit was installed and commissioned on-site to demonstrate the reduction in fouling potential achieved thanks to DuPont (TM) B-Free (TM) pre-treatment technology. This long-term test has shown significant improve-ments in SWRO operation and the mitigation of biofouling potential. These results are translated into reduced energy consumption, reduced chemical cleaning, and upgraded system reliability.
UT WOS:001119270400029
ER

PT C
AU Almannai, W
   Lewis, T
AF Almannai, Waleed
   Lewis, Ted
BE Remenyi, D
TI Minimizing network risk with application to critical infrastructure
   protection
DE vulnerability; allocation cost; elimination cost; availability; critical
   infrastructure; network risk
AB The risk posed by natural disasters and terrorist attacks on critical infrastructure sectors such as the power grid, water supply, and telecommunication systems can be modeled by network risk. However, there is currently no definition of risk for a network. We propose a new definition of network risk and apply it to optimal allocation of a fixed budget such that network risk is minimized for two cost models: Linear and nonlinear. We show that in both cases, risk minimization is achieved by ranking nodes and links according to their damage value and degree sequence. Furthermore, we identify the critical nodes and links as those with the highest allocation of funds.
UT WOS:000253369900001
ER

PT J
AU Santhosh, A
   Farid, AM
   Youcef-Toumi, K
AF Santhosh, Apoorva
   Farid, Amro M.
   Youcef-Toumi, Kamal
TI Real-time economic dispatch for the supply side of the energy-water
   nexus
DE Energy-water nexus; Electricity market; Smart power grid; Smart water
   grid; Water distribution; Energy management
ID UNIT COMMITMENT; COGENERATION PLANTS; POWER; OPTIMIZATION; GENERATION;
   DESALINATION; UNCERTAINTY; CHALLENGES; OPERATION; SYSTEMS
AB Clean energy and water are two essential resources that any society must securely deliver. Their usage raises sustainability issues and questions of nations' resilience in face of global changes and mega-trends such as population growth, global climate change, and economic growth. Traditionally, the infrastructure systems that deliver these precious commodities, the water distribution and power transmission networks are thought of as separate, uncoupled systems. However, in reality, they are very much coupled in what is commonly known as the energy-water nexus. Although this subject has recently caught the attention of numerous policy and regulatory agencies, rarely is it holistically addressed in terms of an integrated engineering system for its management, planning, and regulation as an interdisciplinary concern. This work specifically fills this gap by addressing the supply side of this integrated engineering system. Specifically, it develops the multi-plant real-time simultaneous economic dispatch of power and water. While significant background literature has addressed traditional power dispatch, and the emerging co-dispatch of power and heat, as of now there does not exist a parameterized model for the optimized dispatch of power and water for multiple power, water, and coproduction facilities. The work presents such a model where production costs are minimized subject to capacity, demand and process constraints. It is demonstrated on an illustrative example of modest size. Interesting results were observed suggesting that the coproduction minimum capacity limits and process constraints can lead to scenarios where cheaper single product plants can be crowded out of the dispatch. The program provides a systematic method of achieving optimal results and can serve as a basis for set-points upon which individual plants can implement their optimal control. In so doing, it makes a supply-side contribution to the ongoing grand-challenge of improving the sustainability of the energy-water nexus. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000335273100006
ER

PT J
AU Toba, AL
   Boire, LD
   Roni, M
AF Toba, Ange-Lionel
   Boire, Liam D.
   Roni, Mohammad
TI Interdependent water and power infrastructure model (IWPIM): A modeling
   approach for water and energy resource management in rural communities
DE Integrated energy systems; Community resilience; Systems modeling;
   Multi-agent system; Water-energy nexus
ID HYDROPOWER GENERATION; MIDDLE-EAST; NEXUS; RESILIENCE; SYSTEMS; DESIGN;
   SIMULATION; DISTRIBUTIONS; ALLOCATION; IRRIGATION
AB The importance of the dependencies between water and power systems is more acutely perceived when challenges emerge. As both energy and water supply are limited, efficient use is a must for any sustainable future, especially in rural areas. Although important, a modeling tool that can analyze water-energy systems interdependencies in rural systems, at the architectural level highlighting the physical interconnections and synergies of these systems, is still lacking. We present a multi-agent system model that captures the features of both systems, at the same levels of fidelity and resolution, with coordinated operations and contingency components represented. Unlike other models, ours captures architectural features of both systems and technical constraints of the systems' components, which is critical to capture physical intricacies of the interplay between systems components and shed light on the impacts of disruptions of either system on the other. This model, which includes multiple infrastructure components, shows the importance of a holistic understanding of the systems, for cooperation across systems physical boundaries and enhanced benefits at larger scales. This study looks to investigate water-power resource management in an irrigation system via the analysis of physical links and highlight strengths and vulnerabilities. The effects of water shortage, water re-allocation and load shedding are analyzed through scenarios designed to illustrate the utility of such a model. Results highlights the importance of inter-reservoir relationships for alleviating effects of disruption and unforeseen rise in energy demand. Water storage is also critical, helping to mitigate the impacts of water scarcity, and by extension, to keep the energy system unaffected. It can be a viable part of the solution to compensate for the negative impact of shortage for both resources.
UT WOS:001298344600001
ER

PT J
AU Mussati, S
   Aguirre, P
   Scenna, N
AF Mussati, S
   Aguirre, P
   Scenna, N
TI Dual-purpose desalination plants. Part II. Optimal configuration
DE dual purpose desalination plant; optimization of process; desalination
   system
AB Large dual-purpose power desalination plants are used to reduce the production cost of both electricity and water. Various combinations of power-desalination systems are conceivable in order to satisfy both power and water demands. The preference of one scheme over another would depend mainly on many factors, such as the required power to water ratio, cost of fuel energy charged to the desalting process, electricity sales, capital costs, and local requirements. The allocation of the total annual cost of a dual-purpose plant to desalted water and electricity can be made by various methods. In this paper, credit method is adopted to calculate the total annual cost. Credit methods allocate a predetermined value to one of the products and determine the cost of the other product by subtraction from the total cost of the dual-purpose plant. In this way, according with the power credit method, the total cost is calculated in the following way: C-water =C-total -W, where W is the benefit of the net electrical generated. Non-linear equations are extensively used for the cost equipment and for the plant performance. The aim of this paper is to design a dual-purpose plant system at minimum cost determining the equipment configuration and its corresponding operating conditions given the water production. The optimal solution is selected from a superstructure containing different possible configurations. One case study illustrating the methodology, robustness and computational performance is presented.
UT WOS:000180486800024
ER

PT C
AU Tsiakkas, M
   Kolios, P
   Polycarpou, M
   Panayiotou, C
AF Tsiakkas, Mihalis
   Kolios, Panayiotis
   Polycarpou, Marios
   Panayiotou, Christos
GP IEEE
TI Establishing Data Integrity in Networks of Cyber-Physical Systems
ID ATTACKS
AB Cyber-physical systems are pervasive in today's society with applications ranging from critical infrastructure systems such as the power grid or water distribution network to industrial control systems. It is clear that the reliability, safety and security of such systems is imperative. In this paper we propose utilizing tools borrowed from cryptography to ensure that false data injection attacks affecting the communications of cyber-physical systems are effectively and reliably detected. A practical example is presented to both motivate and validate the developed tools.
UT WOS:000467725300106
ER

PT J
AU Oikonomou, K
   Parvania, M
AF Oikonomou, Konstantinos
   Parvania, Masood
TI Optimal Coordinated Operation of Interdependent Power and Water
   Distribution Systems
DE Desalination; Reservoirs; Wastewater; Power demand; Power distribution;
   Reliability; Optimization; Interdependent critical infrastructure;
   flexibility; power-water nexus; distribution systems; optimization
ID DEMAND RESPONSE; SIDE
AB With the rising electricity demand for freshwater production, power and water sectors are becoming increasingly interdependent. This vital link could create new opportunities for power and water distribution system operators to coordinate the operation of their systems and achieve operational cost and energy efficiency benefits. This paper proposes the flexible power-water flow (FlexPWF) model for co-optimizing the operation of flexible energy-intensive components in water systems with the operation of both power and water distribution systems. The FlexPWF model leverages the energy flexibility provided by water treatment and desalination plants in conjunction with variable speed pumps and water storage tanks to minimize the operating costs of interdependent power and water distribution systems. The proposed model takes into account the operational constraints of both power and water distribution systems, thus coordinating their operation without endangering the reliable supply of power and water to customers. The paper highlights the merits of integrating water treatment and desalination plants, where a detailed model is proposed to capture their dynamic operation for producing variable amounts of freshwater and providing energy flexibility. Simulations, conducted on the 33-bus test distribution system and a 15-node test water distribution system, show that the FlexPWF model effectively coordinates the operation, reduces the operating costs and improves the operational metrics of both power and water systems.
UT WOS:000583560800018
ER

PT C
AU Månsson, D
   Bäckström, M
   Thottappillil, R
AF Mansson, Daniel
   Backstrom, Mats
   Thottappillil, Rajeev
GP IEEE
TI Intentional EMI against Critical Infrastructures, a Discussion on
   Mitigation Philosophy
AB The infrastructure consist of vast, highly distributed and interconnected networks that constitute the organs of modern society. They are widely spanning, widely connected and often not restricted to a single nation. The technical infrastructures, e.g., the power grid, railways, gas and water distribution, etc., all rely on sophisticated electronic systems. These electronic systems are, if unprotected, vulnerable to different forms of electromagnetic disturbances and, thus, to electromagnetic attacks, so called intentional electromagnetic interference (IEMI). Due to inherent properties of technical infrastructures, compared to confined systems (e.g., a computer), several additional factors have to be considered when investigating the vulnerability towards IEMI.
UT WOS:000397213100035
ER

PT J
AU Khatavkar, P
   Mays, LW
AF Khatavkar, Puneet
   Mays, Larry W.
TI Resilience of Water Distribution Systems during Real-Time Operations
   under Limited Water and/or Energy Availability Conditions
DE Resilience; Water distribution systems; Water energy nexus; Real-time
   operations; Optimization; Simulation
ID SUSTAINABILITY; FRAMEWORK; ENHANCE
AB A methodology for determining system operation resilience is presented for the real-time operation of water distribution systems (WDS) under critical conditions of limited water or electrical energy resulting from extreme drought or electric grid failure. Resilience for water distribution systems is defined as how quickly the WDS recovers or bounces back from emergency to normal operations. The algorithm for operational resilience was interfaced with an optimization-simulation model for the real-time optimal operation of water distribution systems. The resilience methodology considered both demand and water quality requirements of both the municipal WDS and the power plant cooling systems. The optimization-simulation modeling approach interfaced a genetic algorithm optimization procedure with the WDS hydraulic and water quality simulator (EPANET) in the framework of an optimal control problem. The interfacing of the genetic algorithm in MATLAB and the EPANET model was implemented using a MATLAB-EPANET toolkit. An example WDS including two cities, five power plants, and reclaimed water from a wastewater treatment plant was used to demonstrate the application of system operation resilience concepts to assess the performance. The resilience computation methodology presented in this study is applicable to both short-term and long-term failures of WDS. For the purposes of this study, the methodology was applied to three scenarios of short-term (2-6 h) power outages for the example WDS. A sensitivity analysis was performed for resilience of example WDSs under varying degrees of long-term system-level power and water shortages. Applications of the methodology are used to illustrate improved operation resilience of the system.
UT WOS:000481518300001
ER

PT J
AU Balakrishnan, S
   Cassottana, B
AF Balakrishnan, Srijith
   Cassottana, Beatrice
TI InfraRisk: An open-source simulation platform for resilience analysis in
   interconnected power-water-transport networks
DE Infrastructure simulation; Sequential simulation; Disaster resilience;
   Infrastructure asset management; Hazard analysis
ID INTERDEPENDENT CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE; MODEL; VULNERABILITY; FRAMEWORK;
   SYSTEMS
AB Integrated simulation models are emerging as an alternative for analyzing large-scale interdependent infras-tructure networks due to their modeling advantages over traditional interdependency models. This paper presents an open-source integrated simulation package for the component-level analysis of interdependent power-, water-, transport networks. The simulation platform, named 'InfraRisk' and developed in Python, can simulate network-wide effects of disaster-induced infrastructure failures and subsequent post-disaster restoration. InfraRisk consists of an infrastructure module, a hazard module, a recovery module, a simulation module, and a resilience quantification module. The infrastructure module integrates existing infrastructure network packages (wntr for water distribution systems, pandapower for power systems, and a static traffic assignment model for road transport systems) through an interface that facilitates the network-level simulation of infrastructure failures. The hazard module generates infrastructure component failures based on various disaster characteristics. The recovery module determines repair sequences and assigns repair crews based on predefined heuristics-based recovery strategies or model predictive control (MPC) based optimization. Based on the schedule, the simulation module simulates the consequences of the disaster impacts and the recovery actions on the performance of the interdependent network. The resilience quantification module offers system-level and consumer-level metrics to quantify both the risks and resilience of the integrated infrastructure networks against disaster events. InfraRisk provides a virtual platform for decision-makers to experiment and develop region-specific pre-disaster and post-disaster policies to enhance the overall resilience of interdependent urban infrastructure networks.
UT WOS:000822564900001
ER

PT J
AU Wade, N
   Willis, J
   McSorley, J
AF Wade, N
   Willis, J
   McSorley, J
TI The Taweelah A2 independent water and power project
DE independent project; privatization; combined cycle; MSF distillers; Abu
   Dhabi
AB Taweelah A2 is the first independent water and power project in Abu Dhabi under the government privatization policy. In response to the Abu Dhabi Water and Electricity Authority (ADWEA.) request for proposals, CMS Energy prepared and submitted their offer in April 1998. Following clarifications, the Power and Water Purchase Agreement was signed on 3 October 1998. CMS appointed Mott MacDonald as their technical advisers for the tender and project phases. The Taweelah A2 plant will comprise a 720 MW combined cycle power plant and 50 migd MSF desalination plant. Three Siemens type V94.3a gas turbine generators with exhaust heat recovery boilers will supply steam to two back pressure steam turbine generators. Exhaust steam will be taken to four Hanjung 12.5 migd single deck cross tube MSF distillers, equal in capacity to the largest units ever built. Carbon dioxide gas recovered from the distiller air ejectors will be used for remineralizing the distillate. Seawater will be drawn from an existing intake channel serving the complete complex. The boilers are designed for a high level of supplementary firing to meet the wide variations in electrical load on the Abu Dhabi grid, with full water output. Construction of the US $750 million project, located between the existing Taweelah Al and B stations, began in April 1999. First power production is scheduled in May 2000, first water production in May 2001 and completion in August 2001. The plant will be owned and operated by Emirates CMS Power, jointly owned by CMS and ADWEA. This paper describes the desalination and power plant and outlines the power and water purchase aspects of the project. The high thermal efficiency of the combined cycle and MSF plant minimizes fuel consumption, heat rejection and atmospheric emissions, making this one of the best plants in the region from an environmental standpoint.
UT WOS:000083740700020
ER

PT C
AU Morgan, ER
   Acker, T
AF Morgan, Eric R.
   Acker, Tom
GP ASME
TI METHANOL FROM ELECTRICITY, WATER AND CARBON DIOXIDE: OPERATIONAL RESULTS
ID GAS SHIFT REACTION; CO2 HYDROGENATION; CATALYSTS; FUEL; ETHER; H-2
AB A chemical reactor has been developed that takes only carbon dioxide, water and electricity as inputs and produces a mixture of methanol and water. The system includes an electrolyzer that splits water into oxygen and hydrogen; and data logging capabilities for four temperatures probes, two pressure probes and three flow rates. The methanol synthesis unit was run under a number of flow conditions to help characterize its operation. One day of continuous temperature, pressure and flow rate data from the reactor will be presented to illustrate the system robustness. Finally, synchronized flow, temperature, and pressure data will be presented for the system as it undergoes step changes in the synloop flow rate. The results show that the flow rate through the reactor strongly influences the reactor temperature, which, in turn, influences the rate of methanol production.
UT WOS:000374279400012
ER

PT J
AU Tao, YX
   Xu, ZD
   Liu, XY
   Wei, YX
   Peng, HY
AF Tao, Yuxuan
   Xu, Zhao-Dong
   Liu, Xin-Yu
   Wei, Yaxin
   Peng, Haoyan
TI Uncertainty analysis and resilience enhancement for post-earthquake fire
   emergency response considering cascading effects of interdependent
   infrastructures
DE Infrastructure interdependency; Cascading failures; Urban community;
   Disaster resilience; Emergency rescue; Decision making
ID EARTHQUAKE; ACCESSIBILITY; FRAMEWORK; SERVICES; DISASTER; SYSTEMS;
   DAMAGE
AB Resilient cities require effective prioritization of critical infrastructures under budget and resource constraints to minimize environmental, economic, and social impacts of disasters. This study develops a methodology to evaluate physical and functional interdependencies and cascading effects among infrastructures, including building clusters, transportation, water supply, power, and communication systems. The methodology integrates deep learning-driven building damage assessment, agent-based path planning, hydraulic analysis, and probabilistic modeling for debris distribution, ignition, road damage, and pipeline failure, as well as physics-tofunction mapping for power and communication systems. Monte Carlo simulations are employed to quantify the impacts of dynamic and uncertain environments induced by cascading failures on firefighting responses. Furthermore, a management perspective spanning time, space, economy, social psychology, and recovery efficiency is developed to support urban resilience enhancement and emergency response decision-making. Findings indicate that pre-earthquake strategies should focus on cost-effective reinforcement of key components such as communication base stations and substations, improved fire station layout, and enhanced public evacuation training. As earthquake moment magnitude increases from 7.5 to 8.0, urban firefighting emergency response system failure shifts from resource limitations to cascading system collapse. Post-earthquake response should follow a time-prioritized and rapid recovery approach. For strong earthquakes, emphasis should be placed on power system bypass restoration and maintaining water supply, whereas for great earthquakes, priority should shift toward emergency communication substitution and large-scale road clearance.
UT WOS:001863585000001
ER

PT J
AU Ramakrishna, SKN
   Thiringer, T
   Chen, PY
AF Ramakrishna, Sindhu Kanya Nalini
   Thiringer, Torbjorn
   Chen, Peiyuan
TI Limiting the rebound effects when utilising flexibility from heat pumps
   using an adaptive heat pump controller
DE Heat pumps; Flexibility; Rebound power; Cold load pickup effects
ID LOAD PICK-UP; RESTORATION
AB Supporting power systems in severe power deficit conditions using flexibility from houses equipped with heat pumps is a powerful resilience action. However, the rebound effect of using flexibility has large negative cold load pick-up effects while restoring indoor temperatures to normal conditions. Even if the electric heaters in heat pumps are blocked, the standard heat pump controller will not operate fully desirable, leading to a large surplus rebound power consumption. The contribution of this article lies in proposing an adaptive heat pump controller to limit this effect. The proposed controller provides estimates of water supply temperatures to deliver maximum heat at various indoor temperatures during indoor temperature recovery. The Swedish power system with a maximum consumption of 20-25 GW is used as a reference case. Here, at-5 degrees C outside temperature, approximately 1.9 GW is required to maintain indoor temperatures around 20 degrees C, in 44% of single-family houses. The power system can be relieved of 1.9 GW for 7 h and 650 MW for the next 10 h, with the consequence that the indoor temperatures drop to 15 degrees C. During the indoor temperature recovery to 20 degrees C, which takes 20 h, using the proposed controller, the maximum rebound power is limited to 2.6 GW compared to 3.9 GW using the standard controller. Thus, achieving a 33% reduction in peak power.
UT WOS:001648098800001
ER

PT C
AU Knudtson, J
   Mathieu, JL
AF Knudtson, Jenna
   Mathieu, Johanna L.
GP IEEE
TI Topological Models Underestimate the Impact of Hazards on Coupled Power
   and Water Distribution Systems
DE Hazard modeling; simulation; vulnerability analysis; power flow; power
   quality; resilience
ID RESILIENCE; RISK
AB As the number and severity of low-probability, high-impact weather events increases due to climate change, accurate models are needed to better understand the impact of hazards on critical infrastructure. Many critical systems, such as water and telecommunications, are dependent on the power network. At the distribution level, water and power systems are coupled in that water pumps are driven by three-phase induction motors. These motors require certain levels of power quality; however, hazard simulation literature does not accurately model power flow in distribution systems, opting for topological models to decrease computational burden and data collection. In this paper, we explore several case studies on a test system to show how including power flow both changes and adds to our understanding of distribution system vulnerability. We find that topological models underestimate pump failure in over 50% of single line outage cases. In addition, power flow models can be used to show the impact of other hazard events and failures, such as high impedance faults, voltage regulation failure, and secondary outages. On our test system, almost 50% of single high impedance fault cases result in pump failures. Our results show that topological models can underestimate pump failures, and therefore system vulnerability, in coupled power and water distribution systems.
UT WOS:001423279900052
ER

PT J
AU Najafi, J
   Peiravi, A
   Guerrero, JM
AF Najafi, Javad
   Peiravi, Ali
   Guerrero, Josep. M.
TI Power distribution system improvement planning under hurricanes based on
   a new resilience index
DE Distribution system planning; Natural disasters; Power system
   restoration; Resilience; Water network
ID RESTORATION; EXTREME; MICROGRIDS
AB Natural disasters such as hurricanes damage power distribution systems by low probability-high impact events. Other infrastructures such as water networks will be disrupted due to their dependency on the power network. In this situation, a city or region experiences critical conditions. In this paper, a new resilience index based on social welfare concept is presented to decrease unserved loads, restore the distribution system rapidly and decrease the dependency of water network operation to power network failures. The new resilience index is optimized with effective strategies including: upgrading distribution poles, DG placement with different capacities and distribution system automation. The problem is formulated as a stochastic two-stage optimization. The first-stage decisions are the number of each resilience improvement strategy limited to a predetermined budget. Genetic algorithm is applied to solve the first stage. The objective of the second stage is maximizing the social welfare which is solved by an innovative approach. Numerical simulations are performed on the IEEE 33-bus radial distribution system and designed water network related to it. The results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method.
UT WOS:000433169800053
ER

PT J
AU Borkowski, D
   Wegiel, T
AF Borkowski, Dariusz
   Wegiel, Tomasz
TI Energy-Recovery Pressure-Reducer in District Heating System
DE hydroelectric power generation; pump as a turbine (PAT); power
   generation control; hydraulic systems; variable speed drives; water
   resources
ID WATER-DISTRIBUTION NETWORKS; CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS; MICRO-HYDROPOWER;
   POWER-GENERATION; PAT DESIGN; TURBINE; INDUSTRY; SPEED
AB Already existing man-made infrastructures that create water flow and unused pressure are interesting energy sources to which micro-hydropower plants can be applied. Apart from water supply systems (WSSs), which are widely described in the literature, significant hydropower potential can also be found in district heating systems (DHSs). In this paper, a prototype, a so-called energy-recovery pressure-reducer (ERPR), utilized for a DHS, is presented. It consisted of a pump as a turbine coupled to a permanent magnet synchronous generator (PMSG). The latter was connected to the power grid through the power electronic unit (PEU). The variable-speed operation allowed one to modify the turbine characteristics to match the substation's hydraulic conditions. The proposed ERPR device could be installed in series to the existing classic pressure reducing valve (PRV) as an independent device that reduces costs and simplifies system installation. The test results of the prototype system located in a substation of Cracow's DHS are presented. The steady-state curves and regulation characteristics show the prototype's operating range and efficiency. In this study, the pressure-reducer impact on the electrical and hydraulic systems, and on the environment, were analyzed. The operation tests during the annual heating season revealed an average system's efficiency of 49%.
UT WOS:000436515100118
ER

PT J
AU Yang, YS
   Li, ZM
   Xu, Y
   Xiao, GX
   Lo, EY
   Wang, P
AF Yang, Yesen
   Li, Zhengmao
   Xu, Yan
   Xiao, Gaoxi
   Lo, Edmond Y.
   Wang, Peng
TI Co-optimized recovery framework for damaged coupled power-water systems
   with temporal-spatial coordination and MT-SOPs
DE Coupled power-water systems; Co-optimization; Recovery; Reconfiguration;
   Uncertainties modeling
ID NETWORK
AB The resilience of modern coupled power-water (CPW) systems is challenged by various disruptions and risks. While the restoration and repair of individual systems are documented in the literature, their coordination in CPW recovery is rarely focused on. This work proposes a temporal-spatial coordinative method to improve CPW resilience by co-optimizing the recovery process comprising repair crew dispatch and adaptive service restoration. Firstly, a CPW model is developed based on physical mechanisms and component-level interdependencies. The model includes typical post-disruption features, like imbalanced three-phase power flows and pipe breakages. Secondly, a coordinated framework is designed for recovering damaged CPW, considering faulted components, available crew, and resources. The framework hierarchically comprises two stages. The first stage conducts absorption via components' operation and network topology adjustment. The second stage organizes the grouping and routing of repair crews, with further adjustments of absorption to exploit newly repaired components. In addition, multi-terminal soft open points (MT-SOPs) are applied to facilitate flexible power flow control and network reconfiguration of imbalanced power networks to augment the repair process. We also modeled the diverse correlated uncertainties and applied a sample-based optimization approach for timely and robust solutions. The proposed method is validated on a modified 36-node/33-bus CPW system, demonstrating a 32.51 % reduction in unsupplied loads compared to separate recovery. Additionally, incorporating MT-SOPs further reduces unsupplied loads by 16.94 % compared to traditional tie-lines. A large-scale evaluation on a 308-node/150-bus synthetic model further confirms the effectiveness of our framework in real-world CPW systems.
UT WOS:001578824700001
ER

PT J
AU Li, XY
   Wu, ZY
   Yang, L
   Sun, MY
   Zhao, X
AF Li, Xinyi
   Wu, Zhenyu
   Yang, Lun
   Sun, Mingyi
   Zhao, Xia
TI A convex-relaxation based method for optimal water-power flow
DE Water network; Optimal water-power flow; SOC relaxation; Convex
   envelope; Sequential convexification
ID ENERGY NEXUS
AB This paper proposes a convex reformulation for the non-linear optimal water-power flow (OWPF) problem to optimize the operation cost of the integrated electricity-water network (IEWN). Due to the significant challenge in seeking the optimal solution of non-convex problems, the original OWPF problem is reformulated as a tractable mixed-integer second-order cone programming (MISOCP) problem. For the power distribution network, a second-order cone (SOC) relaxation is employed to address the non-linear branch power flow equation. For the water distribution network, a big-M trick is introduced to handle the unknown direction of water flow, then SOC relaxations and convex envelopes are employed to deal with quadratic and bilinear terms in non-convex constraints, respectively. To enhance the approximation accuracy of the proposed MISOCP model, a convex combination method and a sequential convexification approach are developed. Numerical results demonstrate that the proposed method outperforms the original non-linear formulation and linearized reformulation in accuracy, efficiency, and robustness. (C) 2022 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.
UT WOS:000865597700056
ER

PT C
AU Liu, Y
   Zhou, L
AF Liu, Yang
   Zhou, Li
GP DEStech Publicat, Inc
TI The Economical Analysis of Energy Recovery From the Water Supply Main
AB In Hong Kong, the Pressure Management Scheme (PMS) were introduced to solve the leakage problem caused by high pressure in some experimental areas. The main content of the pressure management schemes is to investigate the water conditions in the supply network and to select the idea place for installation of pressure reducing valves to helps reduce water losses. The excessive pressure can be a good opportunity to be utilized to generate power. Economic evaluations of this kind of energy recovery system in different work condition were made in this article. It concludes that the available water head plays an important role in the economic evaluation of the system. Low rated power system with high available water head may have a shorter payback period than high rated power system with low available water head. Overall the trend is indicated that in the pico-hydro range (<10kW), a larger rated power system has a shorter payback period.
UT WOS:000390843300011
ER

PT C
AU Khatavkar, P
   Mays, LW
AF Khatavkar, Puneet
   Mays, Larry W.
BE Kamojjala, S
TI Resilience Computations for Optimal Operation of Water Distribution
   Systems
DE Resilience; sustainability; water distribution system; water energy
   nexus; real-time operations; optimization; simulation; water
   distribution system operations; smart cities
ID SUSTAINABILITY ASSESSMENT
AB A methodology for computation of system resilience for the real-time operation of water distribution systems (WDS) under critical conditions of limited water and limited electrical energy is presented. Critical emergencies in WDS operations can result from extreme drought, electric grid failure, and other severe natural conditions. The basic objective of this study is to apply the concepts of system resilience within an optimization-simulation model for real-time optimal operation of water distribution systems under conditions of limited water and energy availability. The modeling approach interfaces a genetic algorithm optimization procedure with the WDS hydraulic simulator (EPANET) in the framework of an optimal control problem. The methodology is implemented within the framework of MATLAB. An example WDS is used to demonstrate the application of the resilience concepts to assess the performance.
UT WOS:000437016600038
ER

PT J
AU Yuan, XM
   Chang, Y
   Ma, JH
   Lan, JR
   Hong, WP
   Li, HR
AF Yuan, Xiaomei
   Chang, Yuan
   Ma, Jiahui
   Lan, Jingrui
   Hong, Wenpeng
   Li, Haoran
TI Thermohydraulic coupling in solar cells for fully passive on-demand
   water and electricity generation
DE Water-electricity cogeneration; Evaporative cooling; Condensation of
   vapor; Hydrophobic surface; Thermohydraulic coupling
ID PHASE-CHANGE MATERIALS; SUPERHYDROPHOBIC SURFACE; DROPWISE CONDENSATION;
   PERFORMANCE; ENERGY
AB The practical implementation of photovoltaic (PV) cells remains constrained by efficiency attenuation due to the elevated operating temperatures. Traditional PV cooling systems demonstrate a great challenge in simultaneously achieving effective waste heat recovery and water regeneration. This work proposes a thermohydraulically coupled integration of solar cells with an evaporative cooling method, enabling fully passive, ondemand co-generation of water and electricity. In this system, water is delivered to the back of the solar cell by capillary action, where it absorbs waste heat and evaporates to achieve cooling. The generated vapor condenses into drops on the surface of a superhydrophobic condenser and slides down into a collection bottle. By adjusting the water supply height, this system is capable of switching between the two target output modes, i.e., power priority and water priority. At 1.0 sun illumination, the power-priority mode reduces the solar cell surface temperature by 25.3 degrees C and increases its relative PV conversion efficiency by 12.0 %. The water-priority mode achieves a water productivity of 0.51 kg m- 2 h- 1. This design has significant implications for advancing the diversified utilization of renewable energy and promoting sustainable development.
UT WOS:001547956600001
ER

PT J
AU Brunner, LG
   Skipper, D
   Logan, TM
AF Brunner, Logan G.
   Skipper, Daphne
   Logan, Tom M.
TI Estimating whole-of-event consequences in interdependent infrastructure
   systems
DE Time-dependent risk assessment; Whole-of-event consequences; Systemic
   risk; Community resilience; Interdependent infrastructure systems;
   Cascading failures; Recovery modeling
ID BAYESIAN NETWORK; RESILIENCE; RESTORATION; POWER; RECOVERY; FRAMEWORK;
   MODEL
AB Conventional risk assessments underestimate the total burden of hazards by characterizing consequences at or near the point of disruption, rather than as processes that unfold over time. This paper addresses that limitation by introducing a method to estimate whole-of-event consequences in interdependent infrastructure systems, integrating cascading failures and recovery dynamics into time-dependent risk metrics. We develop a modeling framework that generates trajectories of service disruption and restoration across electricity, water, and wastewater networks, and quantify community-level consequences using metrics such as property-days without service, outage duration thresholds, and spatial disparities in recovery. Applied to a coastal flooding case study, the results show that recovery-informed estimates differ substantially from exposure-based and static cascading approaches, revealing both greater total impacts and different spatial distributions of disruption. These findings demonstrate that a substantial portion of risk arises from the accumulation of disruption during recovery, which is not captured in conventional assessments. Whole-of-event consequences therefore provide a more appropriate basis for understanding systemic risk and for informing infrastructure investment, adaptation planning, and risk prioritization. By operationalizing consequence as a time-dependent, system-wide process, this work advances risk assessment practice and supports more accurate and equitable decision-making in interdependent infrastructure systems.
UT WOS:001790717800001
ER

PT J
AU Zhou, JY
   Wang, Z
   Han, MF
   Sun, ZH
   Sun, KH
AF Zhou, Jieyang
   Wang, Zhe
   Han, Minfang
   Sun, Zaihong
   Sun, Kaihua
TI Optimization of a 30 kW SOFC combined heat and power system with
   different cycles and hydrocarbon fuels
DE Solid oxide fuel cell; Combined heat and power system; Hydrocarbon
   fuels; System optimization; Thermal and water management
ID METHANOL; SIMULATION; HYDROGEN
AB Solid oxide fuel cells (SOFCs) could generate power cleanly and efficiently by using a wide range of fuels. Through the recovery and utilization of the energy in the SOFC tail gas, SOFC combined heat and power (CHP) systems achieve efficient cascade utilization of fuels. In this article, an efficient 30 kW SOFC CHP system with multiple cycles is designed based on a commercial kw-level SOFC device. The energy and substances could be recycled at multiple levels in this system, which makes the system do not need external water supply anymore during working. Meanwhile, the performance, fuel applicability, flexibility and reliability of the system are investigated. Finally, an optimized operating condition is confirmed, in which the electrical efficiency is 54.0%, and the thermoelectric efficiency could reach 88.8% by using methanol as fuel. (c) 2021 Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of Hydrogen Energy Publications LLC.
UT WOS:000744011300015
ER

PT C
AU Davidson, C
   Andel, T
AF Davidson, Cordell
   Andel, Todd
GP Acad Conf Ltd
TI Feasibility of Applying Moving Target Defensive Techniques in a SCADA
   System
DE moving target defense; SCADA; security; network security; software
   vulnerability mitigation; diversity defense
AB Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) systems monitor and control industrial systems of national importance, including but not limited to the electric power grid, oil and gas refineries, water supply and sewage systems, and gas pipelines. They are an integral part of a nation's critical infrastructure. As such, the reliability and availability of these systems are extremely important. Once SCADA systems are running reliably, changes to the hardware or software are typically avoided. As a result, many of these systems rely upon hardware and software systems that are years or even decades in age. Over time and for the purpose of cost optimization, SCADA systems have become increasingly reliant upon commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) products. Many of these products have known vulnerabilities that are expected to be patched or replaced quite often to mitigate potential attacks. However, frequent patches and updates are often unfeasible in a SCADA system. The requirements of reliability and availability may outweigh the potential benefits. An additional security issue is that in order to enable remote system management, SCADA systems are becoming increasingly connected directly to corporate networks as well as the Internet thus making it easier for an adversary to connect to a system in order to exploit known vulnerabilities. Moving Target Defense (MTD) is a security approach used in many common computer systems to help make them less easily compromised. A MTD seeks to provide additional protection to all protected programs even if those programs have known vulnerabilities. It does not seek to fix any particular software vulnerability but, instead, seeks to make any such vulnerability more difficult to exploit. Other security solutions elaborated for our common computer systems and networks, such as frequent software patching, might not be applicable for SCADA systems due to their specific requirements and constraints. However, there has not been much academic discussion of applying Moving Target Defenses to SCADA systems. We analysed several different MTD techniques for their suitability as defense of various components of SCADA systems. Our determination is that there are several MTD approaches that are feasible for use in SCADA systems.
UT WOS:000391660200044
ER

PT J
AU Jian, PR
   Guo, Q
   Nojavan, S
AF Jian, Peiru
   Guo, Qun
   Nojavan, Sayyad
TI Risk-averse operation of energy-water nexus using information gap
   decision theory
DE Power-water nexus system; Water, and power demand uncertainty;
   Risk-averse; Risk-neutral; Information gap decision theory
ID COMBINED SYSTEM; POWER; FOOD; OPTIMIZATION; UNCERTAINTY; PERFORMANCE;
   DEMAND
AB Nowadays, nexus systems spread in modern societies because of their ability in incorporation of the dependencies of the interconnected resources water and energy. Other parameters such as cost-effectiveness, environmental issues can be considered as the advantages of the mentioned system. Besides the mentioned positive features, the most significant barrier, the uncertainty of the demand energy, still needs to be taken into account. So, information gap decision theory (IGDT) is applied to the proposed nexus system to analyze the water and power demand uncertainties levels. GAMS software is used to solve the proposed risk-based model. In the proposed IGDT method, risk-averse and risk-neutral strategies are applied to the proposed nexus system, and the obtained results are analyzed with each other. Obtained results indicate the robustness of studied system under uncertainties of water and power demands. For instance, alpha = 5.7%, total robustness cost of the studied nexus system is increased by approximately $250. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000720474900002
ER

PT J
AU Wang, P
   Zhu, YF
   Liu, JW
   Yu, P
   Huang, L
AF Wang, Peng
   Zhu, Yifan
   Liu, Jiawen
   Yu, Ping
   Huang, Lei
TI Is the secondary consumption of renewable energy sustainable? Empirical
   evidence from the photovoltaic industry in China
DE Renewable energy; Photovoltaic; Life cycle assessment; Water resources
   vulnerability; Electricity supplies
ID WATER NEXUS; ELECTRICITY PRODUCTION; WASTE MANAGEMENT; POWER-GENERATION;
   IMPACTS; SYSTEMS; DEMAND
AB The vigorous development of renewable energy is an important way to achieve carbon neutrality in China, but the water and electricity consumption of renewable energy in its life cycle is still unclear. This study took the life cycle of photovoltaic (PV) industry as an example, combined the life cycle assessment method, Weibull model and water resources vulnerability index to evaluate the life cycle water and electricity consumptions of PV industry in 31 provinces and cities in China and further analyzed the effects of these consumptions on local resources. The results indicated that the PV industry consumed 7841.08 kg of water and 2580.6 kWh of electricity for 1 kWp. The discarded capacities of China will increase with growing installed capacities and reach nearly 13 GW in 2050, which will lead to significantly increasing usage of water and electricity of PV industry and exert pressure on water and electricity systems. Considering severe situation of water resources in central and northern China and huge demand for electricity in eastern China, the Chinese government should rationally arrange development of PV. (C) 2022 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.
UT WOS:000870067300005
ER

PT J
AU Wang, K
   Xu, ZP
   Liu, Y
   Fang, YP
AF Wang, Kai
   Xu, Zhaoping
   Liu, Yu
   Fang, Yiping
TI Resilience Enhancement for Multistate Interdependent Infrastructure
   Networks: From a Preparedness Perspective
DE Resilience; Planning; Programming; Uncertainty; Stochastic processes;
   Optimization; Hazards; Interdependent infrastructure networks;
   multistate network; resilience; two-stage stochastic programming;
   vulnerability
ID ROBUST OPTIMIZATION; SCENARIO REDUCTION; SYSTEMS; FRAMEWORK;
   RELIABILITY; DESIGN; RISK; RESTORATION; STRATEGIES; ALLOCATION
AB Reducing vulnerability and enhancing resilience of infrastructure networks subject to uncertain disruptions is a challenging task as these networks become increasingly interconnected and interdependent. This article devotes to addressing the preparedness planning problem of interdependent infrastructure networks. The interdependency between infrastructure networks is characterized by a two-way physical interdependency, that is, the state of one infrastructure network is dependent on that of another infrastructure network, and vice versa. Furthermore, the multistate characteristics of infrastructure networks are taken into account and accommodated to the studied physical interdependency. A tailored two-stage stochastic programming framework, which is able to cope with the uncertainty associated with disruption scenarios, is put forth to facilitate an effective resilience enhancement strategy under a limited budget. In this framework, the first-stage problem selects the optimal protection levels of network components in advance, whereas the second-stage problem optimizes the network operation after a disruption scenario occurs. The proposed framework is implemented to an illustrative system composed of interdependent power-water distribution networks to demonstrate the effectiveness of the resilience enhancement strategy.
UT WOS:000757873700001
ER

PT J
AU Almoghathawi, Y
   Barker, K
AF Almoghathawi, Yasser
   Barker, Kash
TI Component importance measures for interdependent infrastructure network
   resilience
DE Importance measures; Interdependent networks; Recoverability;
   Resilience; Vulnerability
ID VULNERABILITY ANALYSIS; STOCHASTIC-MEASURES; SEISMIC RESILIENCE; FLOW
   MODEL; SYSTEMS; RESTORATION; IDENTIFICATION; DESIGN; FAILURE; IMPACTS
AB Critical infrastructure networks such as transportation, telecommunications, electric power, natural gas and oil, and water distribution rely on one another for their proper functionality. Hence, they are increasingly interdependent, making them highly vulnerable, where the occurrence of even a small disruption in one infrastructure network could propagate to affect other dependent infrastructure networks leading to a more significant adverse impact on society. Therefore, a key aspect of preparedness planning in infrastructure networks is identifying the critical network components that influence not only (i) the performance of their networks the most when disrupted and restored but also (ii) the performance of other networks due to their interdependent nature. This work offers a means to study the importance of interdependent network components with a resilience-focused performance measure in mind. We propose two component importance measures, (i) the first of which quantifies the effect of disrupted components on the resilience of the interdependent infrastructure networks once they are recovered, while (ii) the second measures the potential impact on the resilience of the interdependent infrastructure networks caused by a specific disrupted network element. The proposed measures are illustrated through generated interdependent power-water networks and compared with two other common network centrality measures. The use of such measures could identify components that are candidates for the allocation of resources to reduce their vulnerability or to expedite their recovery.
UT WOS:000472691300014
ER

PT J
AU Chen, YD
   Li, LZ
   Li, WJ
   Yuan, JF
   Ji, WY
AF Chen, Yudi
   Li, Lingzhi
   Li, Wenjie
   Yuan, Jingfeng
   Ji, Wenying
TI Toward Community-Centered Planning of Infrastructure Restorations by
   Integrating Community Demographics and Public Facilities
DE Infrastructure resilience; Social vulnerability; Optimization model
ID NETWORK DESIGN; SYSTEMS; RESILIENCE; FRAMEWORK
AB Critical lifeline infrastructures are increasingly facing disruptions from natural and human-made disasters. To reduce disaster impacts on communities, there is a paradigm shift toward community-centered planning of infrastructure restorations. Existing studies often conduct community-centered planning by incorporating community demographics, such as population and social vulnerability, but fail to include public facilities (e.g., hospitals and police stations) that also play a critical role in community functioning. This study seeks to bridge this gap by integrating a full set of community factors, including not just those related to humans, but also those concerning public facilities. Such an information integration perspective is applied to determine the restoration priority of damaged infrastructure components. Then, a priority-integrated optimization model is built for allocating restoration resources efficiently. For illustration purposes, the study examines the restorations of interdependent infrastructure systems, i.e., power and water infrastructures, in Shelby County, US. The results indicate that, compared to the approaches that ignore public facilities, the proposed approach significantly facilitates the restoration of infrastructure nodes serving critical public facilities (e.g., hospitals) without increasing the overall restoration duration. Theoretically, this presented study emphasizes the necessity of including a full set of community factors to achieve community-centered planning of infrastructure restorations. Methodologically, it offers a structured approach that simplifies the transition from integrating various community factors to scheduling infrastructure restoration resources. Practically, this study's approach aligns closely with existing procedures in utility companies, making it more readily adaptable for them.
UT WOS:001446364600012
ER

PT J
AU Little, RG
   Loggins, RA
   Mitchell, JE
   Ni, N
   Sharkey, TC
   Wallace, WA
AF Little, Richard G.
   Loggins, Ryan A.
   Mitchell, John E.
   Ni, Ni
   Sharkey, Thomas C.
   Wallace, William A.
TI CLARC: An Artificial Community for Modeling the Effects of Extreme
   Hazard Events on Interdependent Civil and Social Infrastructure Systems
DE Artificial community; Critical infrastructure; Synthetic datasets;
   Computer modeling; Emergency preparedness; Community resilience
ID NETWORK DESIGN; RESTORATION
AB During the development of a suite of computer-aided decision support tools for the restoration of interdependent infrastructures impacted by an extreme natural hazard event, it became apparent that the release of vulnerability data on actual infrastructure systems could raise security concerns. As a result, an artificial and customizable infrastructure dataset was developed based on experiences with creating real, but not public, data that can be used for modeling, analysis, and decision making. The purpose of this paper is to describe the rationale and methodology for assembling the database for customizable artificial community (CLARC), an artificial coastal community of approximately 500,000 people and 1,065 square miles, that includes five civil infrastructure networks (electricity, water, wastewater, transportation, and communications) and social infrastructures, such as public safety, healthcare, and critical commercial services including fuel and banking that communities rely upon during an emergency as well as population and other socio-economic factors. The interdependencies that exist between the civil infrastructure systems and between civil and social infrastructures are included in the dataset and are attributes to assist with modeling and analysis. This paper discusses the dataset in detail, describes why and how it was assembled, and includes a virtual case study that uses the CLARC dataset to simulate the impacts on the civil and social infrastructure of a hypothetical Category 3 hurricane and the community's response and recovery from that event. The dataset is openly available for use by the research and practitioner communities.
UT WOS:000507633100002
ER

PT J
AU Liu, XO
AF Liu, Xiaoou
TI Research on collaborative scheduling of internet data center and
   regional integrated energy system based on electricity-heat-water
   coupling
DE Internet data center; Integrated energy system; Water-energy nexus;
   Demand response; Flexible substation
AB Aiming at the carbon peaking and carbon neutrality goals, the water resource and energy management of internet data center involves many aspects, including the interaction among internet data center, power grid, water network and heat consumer. As an important demand response resource for the power grid, the interaction between both can improve the flexibility of the power grid, and ensure the power supply reliability and operation economy of internet data center. Existing references assume that regional integrated energy system can obtain all data information and scheduling permissions of internet data center, ignore the autonomous decision-making ability of both, resulting in its application has some constraints. The operation pattern switchover of internet data center and data allocation among multiple internet data center s are ignored, it is not possible to fully play the flexibility characteristics of internet data center. The study of interaction between internet data center and power grid simplifies the power grid as an ideal power source, ignoring its operational constraints. Internet data center configured with renewable energy, electric energy storage device and water-cooling system is taken as one of the research objects in this paper, and regional integrated energy system formed by the coupling of distribution network and water network as the other. The water-energy coupling and cooperative operation between above two are studied for solving the above problem. The proposed method has been validated in the demonstration project of the "East Data and West Computing" big data industrial park in Qingyang, Gansu, China. The results of example show that water-energy demand response and waste heat reuse can help to reduce the operational cost of internet data center, improve scheduling flexibility of regional integrated energy system, and enhance the capacity of renewable energy utilization. The operational cost of internet data center and regional integrated energy system is sensitive to emergency capacity of electric energy storage device, cost coefficient of the power demand response of electric energy storage device and water demand response of reservoir, data load flexible scheduling strategy, which is consistent with the operational status of the demonstration project.
UT WOS:001178680500001
ER

PT J
AU Fueyo, A
   Sánchez, O
   Villazán, B
   Nicieza, AG
   Escudero, A
   Cordón, J
   Cabiedas, S
   Fernández, L
   Granero-Castro, J
   Borrell, YJ
AF Fueyo, Alvaro
   Sanchez, Omar
   Villazan, Beatriz
   Nicieza, Alfredo G.
   Escudero, Amando
   Cordon, Javier
   Cabiedas, Samuel
   Fernandez, Lorena
   Granero-Castro, Javier
   Borrell, Yaisel J.
TI Back to life after 50 years: effects of environmental flow restoration
   on macroinvertebrate biodiversity and river ecological status. A case
   study of the Valseco stream, Spain
DE DNA metabarcoding; drought; ecological diversity; habitat destruction;
   Iberian Peninsula; recolonization
ID HABITAT; COLONIZATION; ASSEMBLAGES; FRAGMENTATION; CONSEQUENCES;
   COMMUNITIES; RESILIENCE; RECOVERY; FISH
AB The construction of dams and reservoirs to meet increasing water and electricity demands has significantly altered many natural river flows, posing threats to the ecological integrity of freshwater ecosystems. Environmental flows (e-flows) have been advocated to mitigate the negative impacts of hydroelectric power generation and to maintain healthy river ecosystems. However, the relationship between e-flow implementation and ecological response remains poorly understudied. Here we conducted a comprehensive 2-year study monitoring macroinvertebrate biodiversity using both morphological identification and DNA metabarcoding to explore the effect of e-flow recovery after 50 years of no flow contribution (the stream was basically dry) due to hydroelectric regulation in a small stream (Valseco). Our results revealed significant changes in macroinvertebrate diversity and ecological status following e-flow restoration. Initial diversity values were low, but they progressively increased, with distinct recovery rates observed across different stream sites. Molecular analyses, which provided a higher taxonomic resolution that allowed the detection of differences in species composition, showed a slight decrease in oligochaete species and an increase in Ephemeroptera, Plecoptera, and Trichoptera species. Ecological status assessments showed a shift from bad to good status within 2 years post-restoration. Notably, the farthest downstream site (i.e. that closest to the receiving river and farthest from the dam) reached good steady status in the first year. This study highlights the effectiveness of e-flow restoration in recovering macroinvertebrate biodiversity and achieving good status of biological integrity, underscoring the importance of such management strategies in meeting the targets of the Water Framework Directive. Finally, it emphasizes the need for further research to understand early recolonization dynamics and evaluate ecological status assessment methodologies in similar restoration contexts.
UT WOS:001568968200001
ER

PT J
AU El Shamy, AR
   Al-Sumaiti, AS
AF El Shamy, Ahmed R.
   Al-Sumaiti, Ameena S.
TI Optimal cost predictive BMS considering greywater recycling, responsive
   HVAC, and energy storage
DE Battery energy storage; Building energy management system; Demand
   response; Electric and water networks; HVAC; Onsite greywater recycling;
   Optimal model predictive control; Photovoltaics
ID WATER MANAGEMENT; SUSTAINABLE ENERGY; BUILDINGS; SYSTEMS; TECHNOLOGIES;
   MICROGRIDS; RESILIENCE; STRATEGY; LOAD; GREY
AB A crucial aspect of a sustainable city is ensuring that energy and water supplies can adequately meet urban demand. With the scarcity of natural resources and growing electricity and water demand, it becomes increasingly important for consumers to manage their resource usage more efficiently. This paper proposes a novel perspective of demand-side management coordination strategy for a building's water-energy nexus to enhance the resilience and efficiency of the overall electricity-water-heating system. The model is formulated to optimally coordinates the onsite greywater recycling system, heating, ventilation, air conditioning (HVAC) loads, and distributed energy generation systems with a bidirectional grid connection in a residential building. All subsystems are controlled by a model predictive controller (MPC) receiving real-time time of use (ToU) pricing from electricity and water utilities. The presented mixed integer linear programming model is verified to meet the customers' demands while reducing the operational costs. Results are compared with benchmark systems lacking the water recycling or energy storage system showing 8.3 % operational cost reduction while reducing potable water consumption by 21.5 %. The effect of increased MPC control horizon is also studied showing reduction in cost with increased horizon. Detailed analysis of the proposed framework computational burden and effect of prediction errors is performed to prove the MPC adaptability and robustness. Testing under increased room size and different user preferences further validate the efficacy of the proposed scheme in reducing the operational costs.
UT WOS:001329719000001
ER

PT C
AU Schweiner, RJ
   Twomey, KE
   Lendsey, KE
AF Schweiner, RJ
   Twomey, KE
   Lendsey, KE
GP IEEE
   IEEE
TI Transmission line emergency restoration philosophy at Los Angeles
   Department of Water and Power
DE availability; economic loss; emergency restoration; overhead;
   transmission line
UT WOS:000182688500001
ER

PT J
AU Ghorbani-Renani, N
   González, AD
   Barker, K
AF Ghorbani-Renani, Nafiseh
   Gonzalez, Andres D.
   Barker, Kash
TI Hybrid algorithms for enhanced efficiency and scalability of
   network-based tri-level interdiction models
DE Network protection and interdiction; Tri-level optimization; Hybrid
   solution technique; Decomposition-based method; Interdependent
   infrastructure networks
ID ELECTRIC GRID SECURITY; MATHEMATICAL FRAMEWORK; FACILITY PROTECTION;
   GENETIC ALGORITHM; OPTIMIZATION; RESILIENCE; FORTIFICATION
AB This study focuses on optimizing resilience strategies for interdependent infrastructure networks (e.g., electric power, water supply, transportation system) against intelligent attacks. We formulate this problem as a tri-level defender-attacker-defender (DAD) model, which is known for its computational complexity. To address this challenge, we propose two novel hybrid decomposition-based algorithms: the hybrid Benders decomposition-based (HBD) algorithm and the hybrid set covering-based (HSC) algorithm. These algorithms efficiently solve the nested subproblems (master problem and subproblem) of the tri-level DAD formulation, incorporating metaheuristic algorithms for improved performance. The proposed algorithms are applied to a tri-level protection-interdiction-restoration model to optimize network resilience. Two case studies are used to evaluate the effectiveness of the solution techniques: (i) An interdependent system of water, gas, and power networks with 125 nodes and 164 links, and (ii) A simulated system of two networks with 252 nodes and 507 links. Our results demonstrate that both hybrid algorithms offer high-quality solutions with significantly improved computational efficiency compared to the existing exact solution method based on the set covering approach. In our comparison across different case studies and budget scenarios, we find that for higher budget scenarios, the HBD algorithm outperforms the HSC algorithm and is more computationally efficient. For lower budget scenarios, the performance of both algorithms is similar, with the HSC algorithm showing slightly better performance in terms of computational speed. Both algorithms show clear advantages over the set covering (CD) approach, particularly when available budget grows. This study highlights that the choice between the HBD and HSC algorithms depends on both the case study size and available budget, with the HBD algorithm being preferable in higher budget scenarios and the HSC algorithm being slightly more efficient in lower budget scenarios.
UT WOS:001459689900001
ER

PT C
AU Kandil, AA
   Gambier, A
   Badreddin, E
AF Kandil, Amr A.
   Gambier, Adrian
   Badreddin, Essam
BE Bruzzone, A
   Frydman, C
   Longo, F
   Mekouar, K
   Piera, MA
TI OPTIMAL DESIGN FOR WATER AND POWER CO-GENERATION IN REMOTE AREAS USING
   RENEWABLE ENERGY SOURCES AND INTELLIGENT AUTOMATION
DE reverse-osmosis desalination; hybrid energy; decision support; fault
   tolerant control; energy management
AB In this paper a reverse osmosis desalination plant for brackish water powered by renewable energy sources, and a diesel generator as back-up will be described. The whole system serves as a laboratory prototype for testing new automatic control methods to increase the plant reliability, which is crucial in remote arid areas. The necessary steps for the design of an optimal co-generation of both water and electricity such as the decision support system, modelling and simulation of the system and developing a fault tolerant control system will be depicted. The overall goal is to provide a cost optimal way to produce water and energy under the regional and technical boundary conditions.
UT WOS:000392605000026
ER

PT J
AU Meng, LP
   Yao, XB
   Chen, Q
   Han, CF
AF Meng, Lingpeng
   Yao, Xiaobo
   Chen, Qian
   Han, Chuanfeng
TI Vulnerability cloud: A novel approach to assess the vulnerability of
   critical infrastructure systems
DE critical infrastructure systems; simulation; topological network;
   vulnerability assessment
ID RESILIENCE; RISK
AB Critical infrastructures provide citizens with lifeline functions such as water, electricity and energy and so forth. These interdependent infrastructure systems require reliable models for vulnerability measurement and topological controllability against usual disruptions and unusual hazards. This article proposes a novel approach, named vulnerability cloud, to describe vulnerability distribution and assess the vulnerability of critical infrastructure systems. A vulnerability distribution network is developed for simulation of negative impact on each node, with which the results are represented in vulnerability cloud by three metrics of vulnerability. The vulnerability cloud of single-service and multiservice infrastructure system are proposed, respectively. This approach is applied to a case study of "electric-gas" interdependent critical infrastructure system. Results show that a node's vulnerability and serviceability is closely related to the node's degree, especially the out-degree, while overall system's vulnerability is greatly affected by descent rate of coverage of each infrastructural service node. This approach, at the same time, generates probabilistic simulation diagrams to show continuous vulnerability distribution in areas covered by the specified critical infrastructure systems.
UT WOS:000814046200001
ER

PT J
AU Almoghathawi, Y
AF Almoghathawi, Yasser
TI Optimal resilience-based restoration plan for disrupted interdependent
   infrastructure networks under uncertainty
DE Interdependent networks; Restoration; Resilience; Facility location;
   Routing; Optimization
ID DESIGN; LOCATION
AB The functioning of vital services in a society depends heavily on the proper and continuous operation of critical infrastructure networks, including water, transportation, power, natural gas, and telecommunication. Such networks are essential for maintaining the economy, security, and overall quality of life. However, since these critical networks are interdependent; hence, they are susceptible to various types of disruptions caused by natural disasters, failures, or malicious activities, leading to varying degrees of performance impacts that could directly affect people's daily lives. Thus, a disruption to one network can quickly spread to others, resulting in significant impacts on daily life. Therefore, restoring such disrupted networks in a timely manner is crucial to ensure a prompt recovery and minimize the impact on daily life. In this work, we consider the problem of restoring a set of interdependent infrastructure networks following a disruptive event. We study two essential factors that can accelerate the recovery process: (i) the restoration facilities location, which are considered as dispatching points for restoration crews, and (ii) the routes of the restoration crews within the interdependent networks. Accordingly, we formulate two optimization models using mixed integer programming. The first model, restoration facility location model, finds the optimal location for restoration facilities within interdependent infrastructure networks considering uncertainty in disruptions. The second model, restoration crew routing model, determine the optimal routes for restoration crews within the interdependent infrastructure networks considering: (i) travelled distance, (ii) restoration time required for disrupted network components, and (iii) different importance of network components. The two optimization models are solved through generated interdependent power and water networks to demonstrate their effectiveness.
UT WOS:001641490600001
ER

PT C
AU Kasharin, DV
AF Kasharin, D. V.
GP IOP
TI Designing Decentralized Water and Electricity Supply System for Small
   Recreational Facilities in the South of Russia
AB The article tackles the issues of designing seasonal water and power supply systems for small recreational facilities in the south of Russia based on intelligent decision support systems. The paper proposes modular prefabricated shell water and power supply works (MPSW&PW) along with energy-efficient standalone water-treatment plants as the principal facilities compliant with the environmental and infrastructural requirements applied to specially protected areas and ensuring the least possible damage to the environment due to a maximum possible use of local construction materials characterized by impressive safety margins in highly seismic environments. The task of designing water and power supply systems requires the consideration of issues pertaining to the development of an intelligent GIS-based system for the selection of water intake sites that facilitate automation of data-processing systems using a priori scanning methods with a variable step and random directions. The paper duly addresses such issues and develops parameterized optimization algorithms for MPSW&PW shell facilities. It equally provides the substantiation of water-treatment plants intelligent design based on energy recovery reverse osmosis and nanofiltration plants that enhance the energy efficiency of such plants serving as the optimum solution for the decentralized water supply of small recreational facilities from renewable energy sources.
UT WOS:000423728200063
ER

PT C
AU Shakib, SE
   Amidpour, M
   Aghanajafi, C
AF Shakib, S. Ehsan
   Amidpour, Majid
   Aghanajafi, Cyrus
GP ASME
TI THERMODYNAMIC ANALYSIS OF A COMBINED POWER AND WATER PRODUCTION SYSTEM
ID COMPRESSION DESALINATION SYSTEMS; PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS; DUAL-PURPOSE;
   MSF; OPTIMIZATION; COGENERATION; GENERATION; EXERGY
AB Most of the potable water and electricity are produced by dual purpose plants. Dual-purpose plants are the one that supplies heat for a thermal desalination unit and produces electricity for distribution to the electrical grid. In this paper a power plant is combined with a multi-effect evaporation thermal vapor compression (METVC) system. Compared with the most widely used (Multi Stage Flash) MSF desalination, METVC has more advantages. Then, energy and exergy analysis equations for desalination plant, power generation cycle, heat recovery steam generator and combined power and water cycle are developed and the results are presented. Results show by rising number of effect from 2 to 14, performance ratio, exergy efficiency and specific heat transfer area rise steadily. For combined system, the maximum and minimum values of exergy destruction rate are related to combustion chamber and desalination effects, respectively. Also, with increasing TIT, exergy destruction rate of power generation cycle decreases while the exergy destruction rate of METVC, especially thermo compressor, goes up and fresh water production reduces dramatically.
UT WOS:000291013100032
ER

PT J
AU Janius, R
   Abdan, K
   Zulkaflli, ZA
AF Janius, Rimfiel
   Abdan, Khalina
   Zulkaflli, Zairul Ain
TI Development of a disaster action plan for hospitals in Malaysia
   pertaining to critical engineering infrastructure risk analysis
DE Critical engineering infrastructure; Risk analysis; Disaster action plan
AB Critical engineering infrastructure (CEI) risk analysis is one of the tools used to measure potential risks in order to develop a disaster action plan (DAP). For hospitals, electricity and water supplies are two of the critical engineering infrastructures and when affected can become threats themselves. The objectives of this study are: i) to identify and analyse threats to water and electricity supplies, the threats being of high tendency to be realised during floods and socio-technical disasters; and ii) to review existing disaster action plans and subsequently develop a comprehensive one for water and electricity supplies and to be referred together with existing hospital DAPs. The HIRARC (Hazard Identification, Risk Assessment and Risk Control) guidelines provided by DOSH (Department of Occupation Safety and Health, Malaysia) were employed in the risk analysis process. This process was conducted through questionnaire surveys at several hospitals around Kota Bharu, Kuala Krai, Kajang, Serdang and Klang which have been hit by floods before. The survey involved 400 hospital and their concession company employees through interviews, meetings and workshop sessions. The development of the action plan followed the UNISDR guidance note on Emergency and Disaster Preparedness for Health Facilities and fulfilled the four phases of disaster management; mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery. Results of the analysis revealed that threats faced by the hospitals fall into four major categories; (i) submergence (ii) technical failure (iii) unpreparedness and (iv) unexpected events. The study also revealed that while the threats faced by Kota Bharu and Kuala Krai hospitals were of high risk those faced by Kajang, Serdang and Klang hospitals were mostly medium or low. Therefore, it is concluded that a comprehensive DAP based on the set objectives of ensuring continuous water and electricity supply and the enhancement of coordination among state health departments, hospital managements, concession companies and utility providers must be developed.
UT WOS:000403533100016
ER

PT J
AU Almomani, F
   Abdelsalam, E
   Kafiah, F
   Alshloul, A
   Azzam, A
   Al-Hyari, L
   Otoom, RAA
   Qandil, H
AF Almomani, Fares
   Abdelsalam, Emad
   Kafiah, Feras
   Alshloul, Ahmad
   Azzam, Ahmad
   Al-Hyari, Laith
   Otoom, Raed A. Al
   Qandil, Hassan
TI Enhancing the electricity and desalinated water production from solar
   chimney power plants through integration with nuclear power plants: A
   case study in Jordan
DE Solar chimney; Solar energy; Cooling tower; Water distillation
ID WASTE HEAT-RECOVERY; PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS; BUILDINGS; CFD
AB A new energy generation system combining a solar chimney power plant (SCPP) with a nuclear power plant (NPP) cooling tower has been developed and assessed in Irbid, Jordan. The surplus hot air from the NPP is directly routed into the SCPP collector, increasing the initial air temperature and boosting the air profile of the SCPP, improving the air velocity inside the chimney and boosting electricity and water production. The integration of these two systems (SCPP+NPP) has shown significant improvements in electricity and water production compared to a standalone SCPP. The integrated system provides reliable electricity production throughout the day (24/7), thanks to the contribution of heat from the NPP side. Key results include a maximum electricity production rate of about 238 kW at approximately noon, twice the productive value of a conventional SCPP. The average monthly water and electricity production increased from 9.44 ktons and 25.73 MWh in the SCPP to 22.96 ktons and 63.81.64 MWh in the integrated system. The SCPP+NPP system peaks electricity production of 69.4 MWh in December, underscoring the positive influence of the added nuclear heat. While March emerges as the month of the maximum of water production (25.6 ktons) in the SCPP+NPP system, the SCPP water production peaks at 14.9 ktons in July. The results also show that the integrated system demonstrates a remarkable monthly electricity and water production of 63.81 MWh and 22.96 ktons, surpassing the standalone SCPP's production (25.73 MWh and 9.44 ktons), respectively. These results demonstrate this innovative solution's potential for optimizing excess heat produced by the NPP and the potential to revolutionize the energy industry.
UT WOS:001207484400001
ER

PT J
AU El-Nashar, AM
AF El-Nashar, All M.
TI Optimal design of a cogeneration plant for power and desalination taking
   equipment reliability into consideration
DE cogeneration; desalination; thermoeconomic modeling; reliability
AB This paper presents a method for incorporating equipment reliability considerations into the optimal design of cogeneration systems for power and desalination. Design optimization is carried out using thermoeconomic theory using exergy as the transferable material while equipment reliability is carried out using the state-space method that uses the Markov process. Procedure for cost allocation of power and water is described. The procedure is applied in an example cogeneration plant using a simple gas turbine, heat recovery steam generator and MSF seawater desalination plant.
UT WOS:000259691100003
ER

PT J
AU Li, RX
   Guo, Z'
   Sun, H
   Cai, XC
   Sun, XJ
   Feng, B
   Zhang, YF
   Huang, JF
   Wang, HR
AF Li, Ruixiong
   Guo, Zi'ao
   Sun, Hao
   Cai, Xuchao
   Sun, Xujie
   Feng, Bo
   Zhang, Yufei
   Huang, Jufeng
   Wang, Huanran
TI Synergistic thermodynamic analysis of integrated power-water
   cogeneration: Near-Isothermal compression for desalination and energy
   storage
DE Compressed air energy storage; Desalination; Near-isothermal
   compression; Thermodynamic analysis; Reverse osmosis
ID SIMULATION; PERFORMANCE; PLANT
AB Seawater desalination technology driven by renewable energy is an effective solution to the current freshwater shortage problem. However, the intermittency of renewable energy causes seawater desalination systems to fail to operate stably. This study integrates near-isothermal compressed air energy storage technology with reverse osmosis seawater desalination technology, proposing a novel co-generation system for stable water-electricity production. Through comprehensive thermodynamic modeling of the integrated process, we rigorously analyze the evolution of system performance, energy storage cycling behavior, and desalination module characteristics. The results show that the intermediate pressure and pump flow rate during energy storage significantly govern system performance. Round-trip electrical efficiency and energy storage cycle efficiency exhibit parabolic variations with intermediate pressure, peaking at 4 MPa. At this optimal pressure, At this point, the system's electrical efficiency, energy storage cycle efficiency, water-electricity energy consumption ratio, and reverse osmosis membrane recovery rate are 64.5 %, 75.2 %, 14.2 %, and 9.8 %, respectively. Increased pump flow rate induces rapid temperature rise in the liquid-piston chamber, elevating specific energy consumption for water-electricity co-generation and degrading overall performance. However, expanding the number of reverse osmosis membrane modules effectively mitigates these adverse effects. The near-isothermal compression process substantially suppresses thermal effects within the gas storage bladder, enhancing its energy storage density by up to 28 % compared to conventional adiabatic compression.
UT WOS:001631537900003
ER

PT J
AU Alizadeh, H
   Sharifi, A
AF Alizadeh, Hadi
   Sharifi, Ayyoob
TI Assessing Resilience of Urban Critical Infrastructure Networks: A Case
   Study of Ahvaz, Iran
DE critical infrastructure; resilience; spatial analysis; redundancy;
   robustness; flexibility; vulnerability
ID DISASTER RESILIENCE; FRAMEWORK; PROTECTION; SYSTEMS; VULNERABILITY;
   OPTIMIZATION; CHALLENGES; CLIMATE
AB Cities around the world increasingly recognize the need to build on their resilience to deal with the converging forces of urbanization and climate change. Given the significance of critical infrastructure for maintaining quality of life in cities, improving their resilience is of high importance to planners and policy makers. The main purpose of this study is to spatially analyze the resilience of water, electricity, and gas critical infrastructure networks in Ahvaz, a major Iranian city that has been hit by various disastrous events over the past few years. Towards this goal, we first conducted a two-round Delphi survey to identify criteria that can be used for determining resilience of critical infrastructure networks across different parts of the city. The selected criteria that were used for spatial analysis are related to the physical texture, the design pattern, and the scale of service provision of the critical infrastructure networks. Results showed that, overall, critical infrastructure networks in Ahvaz do not perform well against the measurement criteria. This is specially the case in Regions 1, 2, 4, and 6, which are characterized by issues such as old and centralized infrastructure networks and high levels of population density. The study highlights the need to make improvements in terms of the robustness, redundancy, and flexibility of the critical infrastructure networks in the city.
UT WOS:000537476200189
ER

PT J
AU Alnakhli, A
   Dehghanian, P
   Alhazmi, M
AF Alnakhli, Ahmad
   Dehghanian, Payman
   Alhazmi, Mohannad
TI Coordinated Energy Scheduling in Interconnected Power-Water-Gas Networks
   Under Network Failures
DE Natural gas; Costs; Pipelines; Power systems; Electricity; Resilience;
   Hydraulic systems; Contingency management; Transmission line matrix
   methods; Power transmission lines; Contingency analysis; electric power
   system; water system; natural gas system; interdependency
ID DISTRIBUTION-SYSTEM; ELECTRICITY
AB The rapid growth of interconnections between different energy systems has seen emerging developments in recent years. Electric Power System (EPS), Water System (WS), and Natural Gas System (NGS) have been traditionally operated independently. However, a multi-sectoral approach is needed to enhance the resilience of critical infrastructure systems and reap the economic benefits. This becomes crucial as natural disasters with massive power outages have increased in both frequency and magnitude. To address these challenges, this paper proposes a cooperative joint framework for the operation of the Power, Water, and Gas Networks (PWGNs) during emergency operating conditions. The proposed formulation takes into account the nonlinear nature of both the hydraulic constraints in WS and the gas flow in the NGS. To reduce the computational burden of the original problem, linearization techniques are employed to convert the nonlinear model into a Mixed-Integer Linear Programming (MILP) formulation. Case studies with different contingency scenarios are analyzed in the IEEE 24-bus and IEEE 118-bus test systems, which are jointly operated with a 12-node and 20-node NGS, and a 15-node commercial-scale WS. Numerical results demonstrate that the proposed model effectively enhances the resilience of the interconnected energy systems and reduces the overall operational costs during emergency conditions. Additionally, results show that the proposed joint operation model provides significant energy flexibility and is efficiently scalable to large networks.
UT WOS:001523487600036
ER

PT C
AU Espada, R
   Apan, A
   McDougall, K
AF Espada, R., Jr.
   Apan, A.
   McDougall, K.
BE Piantadosi, J
   Anderssen, RS
   Boland, J
TI Using spatial modelling to develop flood risk and climate adaptation
   capacity metrics for assessing urban community and critical electricity
   infrastructure vulnerability
DE Flood risk assessment; climate adaptation capacity; geospatial
   autocorrelation; Bayesian joint conditional probability; self-organising
   neural network
ID ADAPTIVE CAPACITY
AB The aim of this study was to develop a new spatially-explicit analytical approach for urban flood risk assessment and generation of climate adaptation capacity metrics for vulnerability assessment of critical electricity infrastructure.
   Using the January 2011 flood in Queensland (Australia) with the core suburbs of Brisbane City as the study area, this study addressed the sufficiency of indicating variables and their suitability for climate risk modelling. A range of geographical variables were analysed using a) high resolution digital elevation modelling and urban morphological characterisation with 3D analysis, b) spatial analysis with fuzzy logic, c) proximity analysis, d) quadrat analysis, e) collect events analysis, f) geospatial autocorrelation techniques with global Moran's I and Anselin Local Moran's I, and g) hot spot analysis. The issue on the sufficiency of indicating variables was addressed using the topological cluster analysis of a 2-dimension self-organising neural network (SONN) structured with 100 neurons and trained by 200 epochs. Furthermore, the suitability of flood risk modelling was addressed by aggregating the indicating variables with weighted overlay and modified fuzzy gamma overlay operations using Bayesian joint conditional probability. Variable weights were assigned to address the limitations of normative (equal weights) and deductive (expert judgment) approaches.
   The outputs of the topological cluster analysis showed that 15 out of 22 indicating variables were found sufficient to spatially model the flood risk and climate adaptation capacity metrics. The analyses showed that 214 ha (9%) and 255 ha (11%) of the study area were very highly impacted by the January 2011 flood as indicated by the very high flood risk metrics and the very low adaptation capacity metrics, respectively. In the electricity network vulnerability assessment, a total count of 72 critical assets (zone supply substations, high voltage switching sites, and pole transformer sites) were found highly vulnerable to flood hazard. The flood damage disrupted electricity supply along 627 km and 212 km of transmission lines on the north eastern to south western and south eastern sides of the study area, respectively.
   The newly developed spatially-explicit analytical technique, identified in this study as the flood riskadaptation capacity index/metrics-adaptation strategies (FRACIAS) linkage model, will allow the integration of flood risk and climate adaptation assessments which have been treated separately in the past. As technical support to the Queensland Floods Commission of Inquiry (QFCI) recommendations, this study also provides a tool and identifies adaptation strategies to enable urban communities and the power industry to better prepare and mitigate future flood events.
   The tool can also be used to assess the physical vulnerability of other critical assets (e. g. water supply, sewerage, communication, stormwater, roads and rails) to flooding.
UT WOS:000357105902049
ER

PT J
AU Ou, K
   Yuan, WW
   Kim, YB
AF Ou, Kai
   Yuan, Wei-Wei
   Kim, Young-Bae
TI Development of optimal energy management for a residential fuel cell
   hybrid power system with heat recovery
DE PEM fuel Cell; Micro combined heat and power; Energy management system;
   Constraint; Pontryagin minimum principle
ID MICRO-COMBINED-HEAT; DEMAND RESPONSE; PEM; CHP; OPTIMIZATION; OPERATION;
   STRATEGY; HOUSEHOLD; DESIGN
AB Integration of heat recovery with proton exchange membrane fuel cell/battery-based hybrid power system, which is also known as a micro-combined heat and power (CHP) system, is a promising method to achieve higher output efficiency. The developed hybrid power system for a micro-CHP is applied to a residential house by supplying electric power and hot water simultaneously. When the fuel cell generates heat and electricity via the oxidation reaction of hydrogen with a working temperature of 70 degrees C, heat recovery is provided through internal cooling system. Energy management system (EMS) plays a crucial role in obtaining optimal fuel economy and promising the running stability. Optimal Pontryagin minimum principle is used as a real-time EMS by splitting the hybrid power (i.e., power between fuel cell and battery) to realize fuel minimization, battery protection, and hot water supply. Optimal energy management is achieved by considering the external load demand, state charge of a battery, and temperature of the thermal storage system. Simulation model is developed, and real experiments are performed to prove that the EMS can effectuate high efficiency and safe operation of a hybrid power system through optimal power split between fuel cell and battery powers. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000611859300002
ER

PT J
AU Yeh, WC
AF Yeh, Wei-Chang
TI Building reliable budget-based binary-state networks
DE Binary-state Network; Budget Limit; Network reliability; Minimal Path
   (MP); Binary-Addition-Tree Algorithm (BAT); Stepwise vectors
ID RELIABILITY EVALUATION; MULTISTATE NETWORKS; SYSTEM RELIABILITY;
   ALGORITHM; COST; CAPACITY; SEARCH
AB Everyday life is driven by various network, such as supply chains for distributing raw materials, semi-finished product goods, and final products; Internet of Things (IoT) for connecting and exchanging data; utility networks for transmitting fuel, power, water, electricity, and 4 G/5 G; and social networks for sharing information and connections. The binary-state network is a basic network, where the state of each component is either success or failure, i.e., the binary-state. Network reliability plays an important role in evaluating the performance of network planning, design, and management. Because more networks are being set up in the real world currently, there is a need for their reliability. It is necessary to build a reliable network within a limited budget. However, existing studies are focused on the budget limit for each minimal path (MP) in networks without considering the total budget of the entire network. We propose a novel concept to consider how to build a more reliable binary-state network under the budget limit. In addition, we propose an algorithm based on the binaryaddition-tree algorithm (BAT) and stepwise vectors to solve the problem efficiently.
UT WOS:001067020900001
ER

PT J
AU Mohsenzadeh, M
   Aye, L
   Christopher, P
AF Mohsenzadeh, Milad
   Aye, Lu
   Christopher, Philip
TI A review on various designs for performance improvement of passive solar
   stills for remote areas
DE Solar still; Desalination; Design enhancement; Water cost; Remote area;
   Review
ID COVER INCLINATION ANGLE; MAGNETIC-FIELD; WATER-PURIFICATION;
   FRESH-WATER; SINGLE; PRODUCTIVITY; DESALINATION; HEAT; ABSORBER; ENERGY
AB Potable water scarcity is one of the major issues that has been affecting millions of lives. It became serious in underprivileged remote communities that are unable to afford conventional water supply and treatment systems. Passive solar desalination systems as a cost-effective option for water supply are becoming more feasible in remote areas. However, low water yield and poor reliability are the main deficiencies that need improvement. This article reviews recent studies conducted on performance improvement and water cost reduction of passive solar stills associated with new designs and modifications appropriate for remote areas to identify the most effective designs. The individual effect of each component's design on performance parameters (water yield, thermal efficiency, and unit water cost) has been reported and discussed. The design specifications and outcomes of studies were reviewed and presented in tables to give a broad view of activities in the area, and to provide future studies with data for validation purposes. This article shows knowledge gaps and opportunities for future research through a distinct classification of studies to shape a clear roadmap on the development of passive solar stills. The most effective designs of components with respect to their application in remote or disaster-stricken areas with no access to power infrastructure were determined. In addition, issues around the structural design complexity and operational reliability associated with new designs were presented.
UT WOS:000707352500009
ER

PT J
AU Alhamad, K
   Alkhezi, Y
   Alhajri, MF
AF Alhamad, Khaled
   Alkhezi, Yousuf
   Alhajri, M. F.
TI Nonlinear Integer Programming for Solving Preventive Maintenance
   Scheduling Problem for Cogeneration Plants with Production
DE preventive maintenance; scheduling; optimization; zero-one integer
   programming; nonlinear programming
ID GENETIC ALGORITHM; OPTIMIZATION; MODEL; SYSTEMS; GENERATION
AB Preventive maintenance (PM) is a maintenance program with activities created at a determined interval or according to certain principles, designed to reduce the likelihood of failure or deterioration of item performance. This aims to improve overall reliability and system availability. In this research, a preventive maintenance schedule (PMS) was designed for electricity and desalination of water in power plants, subject to meeting relevant constraints. The proposed methodology is used to generate a PMS for the boilers, turbines, and distillers. A nonlinear integer programming (NLIP) model was employed to address this problem. The results of the proposed method were compared with the PMS for a power station in Kuwait. The results were better in terms of the volume of production and in terms of the gap between the available production and demand in order to continue providing consumers with electricity and water without a shortage in the event of a breakdown in equipment. It produces an improvement of 12.12% and 16.58% respectively, for water and electricity. Furthermore, the sensitivity and robustness of the proposed method were analysed by increasing the maintenance duration for some equipment, increasing the demand, and adding various additional conditions. In addition, a comparison of additional conditions with a binary problem method in terms of computer time for the search for an optimal solution was carried out, where the model provided an optimal solution in a reasonable time. Among the most important benefits that the user can obtain for this technique are extending the life of the equipment, increasing efficiency, and reducing expenses.
UT WOS:000909972200001
ER

PT J
AU Xiao, TY
   Liu, C
   Liu, L
   Wang, SK
   Tang, JR
AF Xiao, Tingyu
   Liu, Chao
   Liu, Lang
   Wang, Shukun
   Tang, Junrong
TI A nuclear driven hybrid sCO2 power cycle/membrane distillation system
   for water-electricity cogeneration
DE Electricity; water cogeneration; Membrane distillation; Nuclear energy;
   Optimization; sCO2 power cycle
ID CONTACT MEMBRANE DISTILLATION; COOLED FAST-REACTOR; WASTE HEAT-RECOVERY;
   EXERGOECONOMIC ASSESSMENT; SODIUM-CO2 INTERACTION; SEAWATER
   DESALINATION; OSMOSIS DESALINATION; CONCEPTUAL DESIGN; PERFORMANCE;
   ENERGY
AB By integrating a membrane distillation (MD) block with a nuclear driven supercritical CO2 (sCO2) power block, a novel water and electricity cogeneration system is proposed, aiming at the water and energy supply for remote islands and coastal households. MD uses the waste heat from the sCO2 power block through an intermediate heat exchanger (IHX), while the exhaust low-pressure sCO2 flow leaving from the low temperature recuperator (LTR) is cooled by the seawater introduced into MD, without influencing the efficiency of power block. Steady state thermodynamic and economic analysis for the subsystems and the hybrid system are carried out by considering the effects of operation conditions and membrane properties. As the optimal performance of each single sub-system does not always correspond to the optimal performance of the cogeneration system, optimization genetic algorithm is employed to obtain the solutions to optimal block performance and optimal cogeneration system performance, respectively. The results predict that the maximum energy efficiency of the power block and the desalination block is 48.18% and 37.10%, respectively. The minimum levelized cost of electricity (LCOE) and levelized cost of water (LCOW) are 0.0527 $/kWh and 0.445 $/m3, respectively. The maximum exergy efficiency of the hybrid system is 67.82%. The nuclear driven sCO2-MD system is proved to be an effective layout to enhance the nuclear energy conversion efficiency and reduce water and electricity generation costs.
UT WOS:000877594300009
ER

PT J
AU Gomez, C
   González, AD
   Baroud, H
   Bedoya-Motta, CD
AF Gomez, Camilo
   Gonzalez, Andres D.
   Baroud, Hiba
   Bedoya-Motta, Claudia D.
TI Integrating Operational and Organizational Aspects in Interdependent
   Infrastructure Network Recovery
DE Infrastructure resilience; optimization; sociotechnical systems
ID DECISION-MAKING; OR/MS RESEARCH; SYSTEMS; RESTORATION; MANAGEMENT;
   SIMULATION; DESIGN; MODEL
AB Managing risk in infrastructure systems implies dealing with interdependent physical networks and their relationships with the natural and societal contexts. Computational tools are often used to support operational decisions aimed at improving resilience, whereas economics-related tools tend to be used to address broader societal and policy issues in infrastructure management. We propose an optimization-based framework for infrastructure resilience analysis that incorporates organizational and socioeconomic aspects into operational problems, allowing to understand relationships between decisions at the policy level (e.g., regulation) and the technical level (e.g., optimal infrastructure restoration). We focus on three issues that arise when integrating such levels. First, optimal restoration strategies driven by financial and operational factors evolve differently compared to those driven by socioeconomic and humanitarian factors. Second, regulatory aspects have a significant impact on recovery dynamics (e.g., effective recovery is most challenging in societies with weak institutions and regulation, where individual interests may compromise societal well-being). And third, the decision space (i.e., available actions) in postdisaster phases is strongly determined by predisaster decisions (e.g., resource allocation). The proposed optimization framework addresses these issues by using: (1) parametric analyses to test the influence of operational and socioeconomic factors on optimization outcomes, (2) regulatory constraints to model and assess the cost and benefit (for a variety of actors) of enforcing specific policy-related conditions for the recovery process, and (3) sensitivity analyses to capture the effect of predisaster decisions on recovery. We illustrate our methodology with an example regarding the recovery of interdependent water, power, and gas networks in Shelby County, TN (USA), with exposure to natural hazards.
UT WOS:000484531200005
ER

PT C
AU Birla, DD
   McCorkle, RM
AF Birla, Dev D.
   McCorkle, Robert M.
GP IEEE
TI Outsourcing T&D infrastructure projects -: Burbank Water & Power
DE power system economics; power system planning; power system reliability;
   substations; outsourcing
AB In the mid 1990's, the City of Burbank's Water and Power Department (BWP) needed to focus on the electric infrastructure needs of their world-class media customers. Although the first two self-performed substation projects met BWP objectives, the process had major project management and coordination shortcomings. For its more recent station projects, BWP uses Design-Build outsourcing that provides single point accountability. This approach maintains a critical focus on cost control and schedule adherence, while addressing labor concerns and maintaining end user satisfaction.
UT WOS:000244311700043
ER

PT C
AU Zhang, YF
   Xu, LX
   Gao, MY
   Cai, PX
   Dcng, C
   Zhang, XL
AF Zhang, Yunfeng
   Xu, Lixiong
   Gao, Mingyu
   Cai, Peixin
   Dcng, Chuang
   Zhang, Xiaoling
GP IEEE
TI Lrban Power Grid Resilience Assessment Method Considering Urban Lifeline
   Function
DE power grid resilience; urban lifeline; earthquake disaster; urban power
   grid
ID FRAMEWORK; SYSTEMS
AB The occurrence probability of extreme disasters such as earthquakes is very low, but when they do occur, they pose significant risks to the stable and reliable operation of power systems. During the Wenchuan Earthquake in China on May 12, 2008, with a magnitude of 8.0, the power grid experienced a load loss exceeding 4 million kW, leaving at least 2.46 million users without electricity, resulting in enormous economic losses and severe social impacts. As a crucial energy provider in urban systems, the power grid plays a key supporting role in the operation of urban lifeline systems. Therefore, resilience assessment of urban power grids should not be limited to power restoration but should comprehensively consider the recovery of functional demands across urban lifeline systems. This study establishes a coupled system of water, electricity, and gas networks as urban lifelines and proposes urban power grid resilience assessment metrics based on the functional demands of urban lifeline systems. These metrics take into account the needs of different types of users for water, electricity, and gas resources under conditions where main grid power supply is constrained by earthquake disasters, focusing on voltage levels ranging from 10 kV to 220 kV.
UT WOS:001492764600028
ER

PT J
AU Ruede, L
   Gust, G
   Neumann, D
AF Ruede, Lenard
   Gust, Gunther
   Neumann, Dirk
TI Multi-period electricity distribution network investment planning under
   demand coincidence in the smart grid
DE Smart grid; Electricity network planning; Coincidence factor; Load
   patterns
ID ACTIVE DISTRIBUTION NETWORKS; DISTRIBUTION-SYSTEMS; PART II; GENERATION;
   UNCERTAINTY; ALLOCATION; MODELS; RELIABILITY; FORMULATION; ALGORITHM
AB In recent years, new smart technologies like electric vehicles and active demand management have been introduced to reduce carbon emissions in electricity distribution networks, resulting in altered electricity consumption patterns. However, the impact of the technologies on electricity consumption remains uncertain due to a lack of rigorous evaluation methods and planning techniques accounting for these changes. Addressing these gaps, this paper contributes three key elements to information systems literature. First, this paper presents a policy to plan multi-period electricity distribution networks that are able to take into account changing electricity consumption patterns. This paper uses a policy to determine the impact of new technologies on distribution network investments. Second, this paper determines the effect of network topologies on distribution network investments with altered consumption patterns. Third, this paper develops and solves a novel optimization problem that formalizes the task of long-term distribution network planning under variable consumption patterns. This work holds implications for distribution network management, policy, and research. It offers recommendations for integrating our policies into practical procedures, emphasizing the need for more rigorous planning incentives for policymakers. Furthermore, the large effect of altered consumption patterns shows that actions are needed to design policies that work towards lowering load coincidence. For researchers, the presented problem and solution methods are generalizable and can help researchers in other domains (e.g. parcel delivery, water distribution) to solve comparable planning problems.
UT WOS:001291043700003
ER

PT J
AU Tian, KP
   Wang, BK
   Zhang, KG
   Cui, PY
   Kang, YF
   Ma, JC
   Zhang, YA
   Fei, GQ
   Huang, WH
AF Tian, Kaiping
   Wang, Bokun
   Zhang, Kaige
   Cui, Peiyu
   Kang, Yifan
   Ma, Jiacheng
   Zhang, Yanan
   Fei, Guiqiang
   Huang, Wenhuan
TI Dynamic electrostatic cladding-spun core-shell photothermal yarns for
   sustainable solar-driven water-electricity cogeneration
DE photothermal composite yarns; solar-driven interfacial evaporation;
   water-electricity cogeneration; core-shell structure
AB Solar-driven interfacial seawater evaporation is a pivotal technology for relieving global freshwater shortage. Although two-dimensional photothermal evaporators feature low cost and high flexibility, they are plagued by insufficient mechanical robustness, poor thermal localization and low stability, hindering practical applications. Herein, we use a continuous dynamic electrostatic cladding yarn strategy to build core-shell structured yarns, with a high-modulus stainless steel wire as the core and a transition metal-modified carbon-based photothermal polymer as the shell. The PM-1.35 yarn exhibits an ultrahigh tensile strength of 3692 MPa, a water evaporation rate of 2.18 kg & centerdot;m-2 & centerdot;h-1 and an efficiency of 89.6% under 1 sun illumination. The integrated system delivers a maximum open-circuit voltage of 150.3 mV and stably generates 40.3 mV by waste heat recovery. This work integrates robust mechanical properties and outstanding photothermal activity, providing a new technical route for practical seawater desalination and thermoelectric cogeneration.
UT WOS:001830538200014
ER

PT J
AU Tajik, N
   Barker, K
   González, AD
   Ermagun, A
AF Tajik, Nazanin
   Barker, Kash
   Gonzalez, Andres D.
   Ermagun, Alireza
TI A heuristic approach to an interdependent restoration planning and crew
   routing problem
DE Restoration planning; Vehicle routing problem; Interdependent
   infrastructure networks; Local search; Heuristic; Network resilience
ID INTEGRATED NETWORK DESIGN; SUPPLY CHAIN; REPAIR CREW; RESILIENCE;
   RECOVERY; METRICS; MODEL
AB This study proposes efficient solution methods to solve interdependent restoration planning and crew routing problems. The solutions provide reliable restoration plans regardless of the size and structure of disrupted infrastructure networks. We propose a relaxed mixed integer linear programming (MILP) model and two heuristic algorithms to find efficient feasible initial solutions for the restoration routing problem. We also propose a local search heuristic algorithm to find a near-optimal solution using the results obtained from the proposed model. Using electric power, water, and gas infrastructure network instances from Shelby County, TN, the computational results corroborate the efficacy of the mathematical formulation and shows that the heuristic algorithm obtains optimal or near-optimal solutions. In particular, we apply the sequence of the relaxed model, initial solution algorithm, and the local search algorithm for 62 scenarios with different magnitudes of disruption and different numbers of restoration crews. Analyzing the performance of the local search algorithm, we confirm the advantages of using the initial solution algorithm in producing the restoration schedules with reliable and relatively low total restoration time, particularly for large size problems. The observations also reveal how the scattering intensity in the distribution of disrupted locations affects the performance of relaxed models, and consequently, the integrated heuristic.
UT WOS:000707150300015
ER

PT J
AU Wang, F
   Magoua, JJ
   Li, ZS
   Li, N
   Fang, DP
AF Wang, Fei
   Magoua, Joseph Jonathan
   Li, Zaishang
   Li, Nan
   Fang, Dongping
TI Framework for Improving the Postdisaster Repair Sequence of
   Interdependent Critical Infrastructure Systems
DE Critical infrastructure system (CIS); Resilience; Repair sequence;
   Genetic algorithm; Cosimulation; High-level architecture
ID BETWEENNESS CENTRALITY; VULNERABILITY ANALYSIS; RESILIENCE ANALYSIS;
   NETWORK DESIGN; RECOVERY; RESTORATION; MODEL; POWER
AB Repair sequence scheduling is a critical step in the recovery planning of interdependent critical infrastructure systems (CIS) in the aftermath of a disaster. It is an important but challenging task that forms the basis for recovery planning and repair resources allocation by CIS managers. Despite the increasing number of studies analyzing repair sequence scheduling of CIS, existing approaches often struggle to model the complex behavior of CIS accurately under the dynamic impact of repair sequence. Consequently, they fail to fully utilize the detailed operational data of the system, hindering the solving efficiency of repair sequence decision-making models (RSDMMs). To overcome these limitations, this study proposes a new framework for solving RSDMMs. This framework introduces an advanced genetic algorithm-based method (GABM) which incorporates three rules that utilize detailed operational data of the damaged CIS. To obtain the detailed operational data needed to support the improvements in the advanced GABM, the framework leverages a high-level architecture (HLA)-based cosimulation approach to model the recovery process of CIS in detail. The cosimulation approach integrates domain-specific CIS models to capture the interdependencies among CIS and the detailed recovery process data of CIS under the dynamic impact of the repair sequence. To evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed framework, a case study involving two interdependent power and water systems was conducted. The results demonstrated that the proposed cosimulation approach can accurately model the dynamic impact of the repair sequence on the state of CIS. Furthermore, the advanced GABM exhibits significant advantages in terms of convergence speed and identification of the optimal repair sequence. Overall, the proposed framework enhances the ability to solve the RSDMM and supports CIS managers in efficiently responding to disasters.
UT WOS:001365144500007
ER

PT J
AU BUROS, OK
   PYNE, RDG
AF BUROS, OK
   PYNE, RDG
TI EXTENDING WATER-SUPPLIES IN WATER SHORT AREAS
AB Capital expenditures for dual purpose plants to supply water and electricity are high. These can be delayed or reduced by water management techniques including leakage control, wastewater reuse, and aquifer storage recovery,
UT WOS:A1994PP05300043
ER

PT C
AU Zuloaga, S
   Vittal, V
AF Zuloaga, Scott
   Vittal, Vijay
GP IEEE
TI Metrics for Use in Quantifying Power System Resilience with Water-Energy
   Nexus Considerations: Mathematical Formulation and Case Study
DE Critical Interdependent Infrastructures; Electric Power System; Extended
   Period Time-Domain Simulations; System Resilience; Water Distribution
   System; Water-Energy Nexus
AB The electric power system and the water distribution systems (WDS) have several interdependencies which have been recognized and which comprise what is informally referred to as the water-energy nexus. The need to adequately model and study these two systems and their interactions is becoming critically important due to the likelihood of load increases in both systems or due to unforeseen events. From previous studies, it is known that the power system is quite resilient under normal operating conditions as well as under small disturbances due to robust design and planning procedures. However, long-term droughts or wide spread power outages can have a severe effect and are part of a set of high impact, low probability events which need to be studied, understood and if possible, quantified. This paper presents novel performance metrics to aid in assessing the resilience of the power system when subjected to such rare, extreme conditions. The metrics proposed here are based on quantities that are relevant to the power system exclusively as well as on parameters pertaining to its operation in conjunction with the water distribution system. The resilience measures of performance are calculated using appropriate metrics which can be obtained from long-term, time-domain simulations.
UT WOS:001250142702113
ER

PT J
AU Abdel-Jawad, M
   El-Sayed, EEF
   Ebrahim, S
   Al-Saffar, A
   Safar, M
   Tabtabaei, M
   Al-Nuwaibit, G
AF Abdel-Jawad, M
   El-Sayed, EEF
   Ebrahim, S
   Al-Saffar, A
   Safar, M
   Tabtabaei, M
   Al-Nuwaibit, G
TI Fifteen years of R&D program in seawater desalination at KISR Part II.
   RO system performance
DE seawater; desalination; membrane performance; cleaning; restoration;
   multistage flash; hybrid systems; energy recovery
ID MEMBRANE
AB Kuwait Institute for Scientific Research (KISR) and the Ministry of Electricity and Water (MEW) collaborated over the past 15 years in developing and adapting the seawater reverse osmosis (RO) technology to the Gulf seawater conditions (one and half time the salinity of open seas and large temperature variations between summer and winter in the range of 35 degreesC and 10 degreesC, respectively), The development process went through several stages involving performance evaluation of three types of membrane configurations under various operating conditions and using different types of feed water pretreatment techniques. It went also through the evaluation of various commercially available energy recovery systems and the development of a new system. During this period, the RO research program evaluated the performance of ten different seawater membranes, cleaning and restoration techniques and procedures, using various potential agents. Furthermore, computer aided design program and process design and optimization procedures were developed specifically for Gulf seawater conditions, The studies also involved two-phase evaluation of multistage flash/reverse osmosis (MSF/RO) hybrid systems, Cost assessment of product water from RO under different operating conditions and various system configurations was always an important integrated part of each research project.
UT WOS:000168158900016
ER

PT J
AU Yan, KS
   Rong, LL
   Li, Q
AF Yan, Ke-Sheng
   Rong, Li-Li
   Li, Qun
TI Vulnerability analysis of interdependent spatially embedded
   infrastructure networks under localized attack
DE Spatially embedded infrastructure networks; interdependencies; localized
   attack; localized failure model; cascading failures
ID CASCADING FAILURES; ROBUSTNESS; SYSTEMS
AB Infrastructure networks are usually spatially embedded, which makes them even more susceptible to spatially localized failures, i.e. a set of nodes located within a spatially localized area is subject to damage while other nodes do not directly fail. This paper mainly presents a methodological approach for analyzing vulnerability of interdepenz dent infrastructure networks under localized attack. Two types of interdependencies are considered in the cascading failures propagation: functional and geographic interdepen dencies. The roles of different nodes and geographical proximity are employed to establish the functional interdependency. A novel attack failure model, i.e. localized failure model, is proposed to model geographic interdependency and quantify the failure probabilities of nodes under localized attack. Both topology-based and efficiency-based vulnerabilities of infrastructure networks are investigated. An artificial interdependent power and water networks are generated and their pertinent vulnerability is analyzed through using the presented methodological approach. Our method can help the stakeholders increase their knowledge of the vulnerability of the interdependent spatially embedded infrastructure networks under localized attack and protect them more efficiently.
UT WOS:000398241300003
ER

PT J
AU Perelman, G
   Housh, M
   Navon, A
   Ostfeld, A
AF Perelman, Gal
   Housh, Mashor
   Navon, Aviad
   Ostfeld, Avi
TI Integrated optimal operation of power and water systems under
   uncertainty: An adjustable robust optimization approach
DE Adjustable robust optimization; Real-time; Data-driven; Integrated
   systems; Uncertain equality constraints
ID FLOW
AB Water and power systems are deeply interdependent, yet they are typically analyzed and optimized separately. Coupling these systems leverages their mutual dependency to enhance overall efficiency and reliability, although it introduces significant modeling complexity, especially when considering the inherent uncertainty in these systems, such as water demands, power loads, and renewable generation. This study proposes Robust Optimization (RO) and adjustable robust optimization (ARO) for the integrated day-ahead scheduling of pump operations and generator dispatch under uncertainty. A novel formulation is introduced to systematically eliminate uncertain equality constraints, which hinders the direct implementation of RO and ARO models. This is done by decomposing the decision vector into dependent and independent variables and substituting the dependent variables to eliminate the equality constraints. A key advantage of the ARO framework is its ability to incorporate real-time information as uncertainty unfolds, enabling adaptive decision-making. By coupling the two systems, the model allows each system to adjust its operation not only based on internal measurements but also in response to the evolving state of the other system. Two case studies demonstrate the method's performance through a Pareto tradeoff between cost optimality and robustness. The results show that robustness can be dramatically improved, compared to deterministic optimization, increasing the constraint satisfaction rates from less than 25% to above 99% with an increase of only 2-5% in operational costs. The results also highlight the superiority of ARO over RO in achieving lower operational costs for comparable levels of robustness. These findings showcase the potential of the proposed method to generate robust, adaptive policies that support the advancement of sustainable and reliable operation of interdependent infrastructure systems.
UT WOS:001664964400001
ER

PT J
AU Nasrazadani, H
   Mahsuli, M
AF Nasrazadani, Hossein
   Mahsuli, Mojtaba
TI Probabilistic Framework for Evaluating Community Resilience: Integration
   of Risk Models and Agent-Based Simulation
DE Community resilience; Risk analysis; Recovery analysis; Agent-based
   simulation; Infrastructure systems; Interdependency; Cost
ID GROUND MOTION; DISASTER RESILIENCE; RELIABILITY METHODS; SEISMIC
   RESILIENCE; RECOVERY; EARTHQUAKE; COMPONENT; HAZARD; PGV
AB This paper proposes a novel probabilistic framework to quantitatively evaluate the resilience of communities comprising buildings and various interdependent infrastructure systems. To this aim, the proposed framework seamlessly integrates risk models and agent based simulation in a Monte Carlo sampling scheme. The risk module includes models that evaluate the initial posthazard state of the community by probabilistic simulation of the hazard event, the structural response and damage of buildings and infrastructure systems, and cascading consequences that arise from interdependencies. Subsequently, the agent-based module simulates the recovery of the community from those consequences in which decentralized autonomous decision-making entities called "agents" undertake recovery operations. The agents prioritize buildings and infrastructure components for recovery and schedule operations as discrete events with uncertain duration and cost. Consequently, the probability distribution of the total cost incurred by the community and the total recovery time is evaluated. A resilience measure is then proposed as a function of the total community cost, which represents demand, and the gross regional product of the community, which represents the capacity to cope with that demand. The framework is showcased by a comprehensive application to a community comprising a portfolio of residential and commercial buildings, an electric power system, a water system, and a healthcare system subject to seismic hazard. DOI: 10.1061/(ASCE)ST.1943-541X.0002810. (c) 2020 American Society of Civil Engineers.
UT WOS:000574867900010
ER

PT J
AU Ouyang, M
   Liu, C
   Wu, SY
AF Ouyang, Min
   Liu, Chuang
   Wu, Shengyu
TI Worst-case vulnerability assessment and mitigation model of urban
   utility tunnels
DE Utility tunnels; Interdependencies; Urban infrastructure systems;
   Worst-case vulnerability
ID INTERDEPENDENT INFRASTRUCTURE SYSTEMS; UNDERGROUND SPACE; NETWORK
   DESIGN; RESILIENCE; RISK; IDENTIFICATION; FRAMEWORK; RAILWAY
AB Constructing utility tunnels would bring new threats, among which the terrorist threat has been identified as the most serious one. Because utility tunnels increase geographical interdependencies among urban infrastructure systems (UISs), and attacking a tunnel segment could cause simultaneous failure of all its carried systems. This paper models the terrorist threat as worst-case failure, and formulates a tri-level mathematical model to assess and mitigate the worst-case vulnerability of urban utility tunnels that carry interdependent UISs. Exact solution of the model is obtained by a column-and-constraint generation based decomposition algorithm. Real utility tunnels that carry interdependent power and water systems in Tianjin Eco-city, China, are used to demonstrate the proposed approach. Results show that there exists a threshold value of the defense budget B-D. If B-D is less than that threshold, the utility tunnels greatly benefit the attacker and increase the power and water systems' worst-case vulnerability. If B-D is equal to that threshold, the utility tunnels almost do not affect the worst-case vulnerability. If B-D is larger than that threshold, the utility tunnels benefit the defender and reduce the worst-case vulnerability.
UT WOS:000527842500043
ER

PT J
AU Jimenez, R
   Serebrisky, T
   Mercado, J
AF Jimenez, Raul
   Serebrisky, Tomas
   Mercado, Jorge
TI What does "better" mean? Perceptions of electricity and water services
   in Santo Domingo
DE Service quality and reliability; Electricity attributes; Water
   attributes; Price fairness; Disposition to pay; Willingness to pay
ID WILLINGNESS-TO-PAY; CHOICE EXPERIMENT; HOUSEHOLDS
AB The quality of electricity and water services in Santo Domingo is among the poorest in Latin American cities, a situation that has prevailed for decades despite the significant welfare losses associated with such infrastructure deficiencies. In this context, how do households perceive these services? What areas of improvement would mean the most to them? This paper takes a consumer-centric approach to addressing these questions, identifying specific attributes of quality and reliability by which households perceptually define what "better" means. Preliminary evidence suggests that, regardless of price, end user satisfaction and willingness to pay are positively related to service quality. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000387521400002
ER

PT J
AU Lobban, H
   Almoghathawi, Y
   Morshedlou, N
   Barker, K
AF Lobban, Hannah
   Almoghathawi, Yasser
   Morshedlou, Nazanin
   Barker, Kash
TI Community vulnerability perspective on robust protection planning in
   interdependent infrastructure networks
DE Interdependent networks; robust allocation; vulnerability; optimization;
   multi-criteria decision analysis
ID RESOURCE DISTRIBUTION; SOCIAL VULNERABILITY; FLOW MODEL; RESILIENCE;
   DEFENSE; ALLOCATION; ATTACK; FORMULATION; STRATEGIES
AB Critical infrastructure networks, including water, power, communication, and transportation, among others, are necessary to society's functionality. In recent years, the threat of different types of disruptions to such infrastructure networks has become an increasingly important problem to address. Due to existing interdependencies, damage to a small area of one of the networks could have far-reaching effects on the ability to meet demand across the entire system. Common disruption scenarios include, among others, intentional malevolent attacks, natural disasters, and random failures. Similar works have focused on only one type of scenario, but combining a variety of disruptions may lead to more realistic results. Additionally, the concept of social vulnerability, which describes an area's ability to prepare for and respond to a disruption, must be included. This should promote not only the protection of the most at-risk components but also ensure that socially vulnerable communities are given adequate resources. This work provides a decision making framework to determine the allocation of defensive resources that accounts for all these factors. Accordingly, we propose a multi-objective mathematical model with the objectives of: (i) minimizing the vulnerability of a system of interdependent infrastructure networks, and (ii) minimizing the total cost of the resource allocation strategy. Moreover, to account for uncertainty in the proposed model, this paper incorporates a means to address robustness in finding the most adaptable network protection plan to reduce the vulnerability of the system of interdependent networks to a variety of disruption scenarios. The proposed work is illustrated with an application to social vulnerability and interdependent power, gas, and water networks in Shelby County, Tennessee.
UT WOS:000637132700001
ER

PT J
AU Nazarnia, H
   Sarmasti, H
   Wills, WO
AF Nazarnia, Hadi
   Sarmasti, Hadi
   Wills, W. Olivia
TI Application of household disruption data to delineate critical
   infrastructure resilience characteristics in the aftermath of disaster:
   A case study of Bhaktapur, Nepal
DE Resilient city; Disaster resilience; Disruption data; Civil
   infrastructure systems; Emergency response; 2015 Gorkha Earthquake
ID NETWORK ANALYSIS; VULNERABILITY; MODELS
AB Assessing the resilience and interdependence of civil infrastructure systems in order to provide a resilient community for resident has become a prevalent topic among policy-makers, authorities, and scholars around the world. Despite significant advances in this field, there is still a lack of research regarding comprehension of the actual behavior of civil infrastructures in response to hazards and disasters due to their complexity and hidden interconnectivity.
   This study utilizes disruption data and a network analysis framework to describe resilience dimensions in two infrastructures and further validate the previously presented model. Following the evaluation of infrastructures and the previous model, interdependency between two lifelines will be discussed. Service disruption data is a valuable resource to confirm various theoretical methods. A case study of lifelines in Bhaktapur, Nepal is presented to show applicability of the network analysis model and service disruption data in evaluating the interdependencies between these two lifelines. The resilient characteristics of water infrastructure and the interdependence to power infrastructure are explained.
   The contribution of this article is threefold: (i) validation of a novel network approach using disruption information, (ii) analysis of recoverability, sensitivity, and types of disruption patterns, and (iii) comparison of behavior and interdependencies between the infrastructures.
UT WOS:000496603900047
ER

PT J
AU Tong, WJ
   Li, HX
   Nasirzadeh, F
   Ji, YB
   Yao, FY
   Zhou, RC
AF Tong, Wenjing
   Li, Hong Xian
   Nasirzadeh, Farnad
   Ji, Yingbo
   Yao, Fuyi
   Zhou, Ruichen
TI Resilience performance analysis of interdependent infrastructures using
   Fault Tree and Dynamic Bayesian Network
DE Dynamic resilience performance; Dynamic Bayesian network; Fault tree;
   Interdependent infrastructures resilience
ID SYSTEMS
AB Interdependent infrastructure systems are designed to work synergistically, but disruptions in one can rapidly propagate to others, posing significant challenges to their stable operation. This study introduces a novel integrated probabilistic modelling framework for simulating the resilience performance of interdependent infrastructures. The proposed computational model employs a Fault Tree to interpret complex relationships among interdependent infrastructures, identify cascading failure propagation paths, and calculate component failure probabilities in non-disaster scenarios. Building on the static cascading failure analysis provided by the fault tree, a hybrid Dynamic Bayesian Networks model is developed to assess the dynamic resilience of interdependent infrastructures, incorporating both constant nodes (unaffected by disasters) and time-dependent nodes (affected by disasters). The proposed computational model is applied to a real community-scale water-electricity-road (WER) system in China, with a focus on physical interdependences. Under non-disaster conditions, the probability of water-supply failure (1.89%) exceeds that of electricity supply (0.67%) and road accessibility (0.58%), with ageing sub-pipelines identified as critical vulnerable components. Under rainfall scenarios, resilience performance loss increases nonlinearly with rainfall intensity, with the road system exhibiting the most rapid degradation, followed by the electricity and water systems. These results support a sequenced recovery and mitigation strategy that prioritises roads, followed by electricity, and then water. Overall, this study provides a novel integrated probabilistic model to identify critical physical interdependencies, assess time-iterative resilience performance, and compare recovery strategies, thereby supporting resilience-informed decision-making for disaster mitigation and protection of critical infrastructures.
UT WOS:001715193200001
ER

PT J
AU Warrington, S
   Layton, A
AF Warrington, Shelby
   Layton, Astrid
TI Ecosystem guidance for the incorporation of renewable utilities in a
   multi-use campus network
ID INDUSTRIAL SYMBIOSIS; FOOD WEBS; KALUNDBORG; INSIGHTS; DESIGN; PARKS
AB Configuring the network connections in industrial, power, and water networks to mimic the structural patterns of ecological food webs has been shown to improve the resilience of human networks. This work investigates the ability of food web inspiration to specifically guide the incorporation of renewable energy and water sources for resilience. Feasibility is tested using the water and electricity networks of the Texas A&M University main campus, demonstrating the potential of university campus case studies as analogies for other multi-use networks, such as cities or industrial-commercial regions, due to the variety of functions met within the system boundaries. Ecological robustness, the unique and characteristic behavior of ecosystems to slightly favor redundancy over efficiency, is used to correlate the incorporation and supply-levels of solar power and rainwater collection in a realistic campus model with the overall resilience of the electricity and domestic water networks. Non-obviously, the results suggest that the ecologically-similar resilience is achieved when less than 100% of utilities come from renewable sources, indicating an important potential tradeoff between efforts to shift to 100% renewable sources and network resilience concerns.
UT WOS:001016382300022
ER

PT J
AU Stefanizzi, M
   Filannino, D
   Capurso, T
   Camporeale, SM
   Torresi, M
AF Stefanizzi, M.
   Filannino, D.
   Capurso, T.
   Camporeale, S. M.
   Torresi, M.
TI Optimal hydraulic energy harvesting strategy for PaT installation in
   Water Distribution Networks
DE PaT; Small hydropower; Water distribution network; Energy transition;
   Renewable energy
ID CENTRIFUGAL PUMPS; PERFORMANCE PREDICTION; EFFICIENCY POINT;
   PICO-HYDROPOWER; TURBINE; MODEL; METHODOLOGY; SPEED; SELECTION; DIAMETER
AB Water Distribution Networks (WDNs) represent a noteworthy field for possible implementation of Small Hydropower (SHP), by replacing Pressure Reduction Valves (PRV) with turbomachines, in particular Pump as Turbines (PaTs), to control and regulate the pressure, while harvesting energy otherwise wasted. Different models were developed to predict the performance and select the positioning of the PaTs for the maximum energy recovery but most of them neglect practical aspect such as: power grid limitations and optimal harvesting strategy. In this framework, we intend to propose a new method to select a PaT, defining its optimal working point, by introducing an energy exploitation coefficient. The proposed methodology is based on the experimental results of a real PaT tested in the high capacity hydraulic laboratory at Polytechnic University of Bari. Firstly, the selected commercial centrifugal pump was tested in both pump and turbine modes. Then, three different approaches, for the Best Efficiency Point (BEP) selection, are described and compared in terms of energy exploitation and capacity factor for a WDN. The first consists of selecting the BEP at the average flow rate, the second one considers the probability distribution of the flow rate and the corresponding available hydraulic energy, whereas the latter is based on the highest energy harvesting. By applying energy production, economic and environmental analyses, the new proposed methodology, based on the third approach, shows a remarkable advantage in terms of exploited energy. Indeed a remarkable 60% energy recovery is achieved with 334 ton CO2/year avoided. Furthermore, the impact of the electrical motor on the maximum power generation (cut-off) is considered. Eventually, useful insights for the future PaT selection and installation are discussed.
UT WOS:001007481400001
ER

PT J
AU Scheele, F
   Wilson, T
   Weir, A
   Becker, J
   Campbell, M
   Horspool, N
   Bui, N
AF Scheele, Finn
   Wilson, Thomas
   Weir, Alana
   Becker, Julia
   Campbell, Malcolm
   Horspool, Nick
   Bui, Nam
TI Stay-or-relocate model (STORM): An agent-based population displacement
   simulator applied to a multi-phase volcanic eruption scenario
DE Population movement; Relocation; Sheltering; Housing; Temporary
   accommodation
ID SOCIAL VULNERABILITY; NATURAL DISASTERS; PLACE ATTACHMENT;
   DECISION-MAKING; NEW-ZEALAND; IMPACTS; RESILIENCE; EARTHQUAKE; RECOVERY;
   RISK
AB Households are central to societal functionality and may be impacted directly or indirectly by natural hazard events, resulting in the displacement of residents. Emergency management practitioners and policy decision-makers require adaptable decision support tools capable of accounting for fine-scale variations in hazard exposure, vulnerability and demographics across the emergency response and recovery periods. Responding to this critical need, we present the newly developed agent-based Stay-or-Relocate Model (STORM) demonstrated through application to a multi-phase and multi-hazard volcanic eruption scenario affecting the Taranaki Region, Aotearoa-New Zealand. STORM evaluates resident decision-making whether to remain, relocate or return home given household characteristics and changing circumstances over time. Decision components include evacuations, building damage, electricity and water outages, loss of road access, school disruption and reduced community liveability. Incorporation of an empirical relocation module quantifies the displaced residents' selection of accommodation type, area of relocation, duration at location before return or further relocation, and accommodation payment support requirements. Modelling results indicate a peak of 32,000 individuals displaced following the first phase of volcanic activity (24.9% of the population of Taranaki Region), reducing to 16,400 (12.8%) as some residents return during a period of volcanic quiescence, and rising to a second peak of 47,000 (36.5%) following a second phase of volcanic activity. STORM is hazard agnostic and can be readily adjusted to suit the local context of application.
UT WOS:001699239900001
ER

PT J
AU Chini, CM
   Delorit, JD
AF Chini, Christopher M.
   Delorit, Justin D.
TI Opportunities for Robustness of Water Footprints in Electricity
   Generation
DE electricity; energy-water nexus; forecasts; water footprints
ID CHANGE IMPACTS; CLIMATE; MANAGEMENT; RESOURCE; HYDROELECTRICITY;
   DROUGHT; STATE; RISK
AB Water resources are required for cooling of thermoelectric power plants and in the production of hydroelectricity. Scarcity of water resources impacts the ability to generate electricity in grids across the globe. There is extensive literature and research on the electricity-water nexus, spanning hydrology, policy, and energy sectors. Existing research often focuses on quantifying a static relationship and rarely accounts for expectations of annual, seasonal, and subseasonal water variability in nexus research. This omission leaves an important, unanswered question in the field: how can the water footprinting framework be operationalized in the electricity-water nexus with hydroclimatic forecasts? Building off the work by Chowdhury et al. (), we comment on the opportunities for climate-informed, seasonal, or subannual assessments of the electricity-water nexus to facilitate decision-making.
UT WOS:000677819700021
ER

PT C
AU Colombo, B
   Comi, A
   Lucchi, E
AF Colombo, Benedetta
   Comi, Anna
   Lucchi, Elena
BE Zilio, C
   Busato, F
   Mazzarella, L
   Noro, M
TI Renewable Energy and Self-sufficiency in High-Altitude Alpine Historic
   Farmstead: A Design Workflow for Optimizing Solar and Water Solutions
DE Heritage; Landscape; Energy retrofit; Water solutions; Photovoltaic
AB The conservation and adaptation of historic buildings in high-altitude environments presents unique challenges, particularly in integrating renewable energy solutions for energy self-sufficiency. The study focuses on the restoration of Monte Fontana Secca and Col de Spadarot, a 150-hectare alpine farmstead located on the Monte Grappa Massif (Belluno, Italy), and owned by the Fondo per l ' Ambiente Italiano ETS (FAI). The site is a typical alpine pasture, without connections to water, electricity, or sewage systems. The intervention aims to revitalize the pasture, reintroduce cattle farming, and restore cheese production. From 2025, the farmstead will open to the public as an educational center dedicated to mountain agriculture and pastoralism, with overnight accommodations. To ensure the site ' s energy and water self-sufficiency, the project incorporates local RES and traditional techniques to minimize water and electricity consumption. Active solar systems using copper indium gallium selenide (CIGS) photovoltaic panels are installed on the buildings ' roofs to meet electrical and thermal needs. For water, historical pits (pose) used by herders are restored, and new systems like rainwater harvesting from roofs are implemented. The study outlines the complexity of executing this work at high altitude, detailing the stages of architectural and systems design and construction. The project highlights how combining RES with traditional practices can create low environmental impact and self-sufficient buildings.
UT WOS:001753289700010
ER

PT J
AU Wang, SL
   Hong, L
   Chen, XG
AF Wang, Shuliang
   Hong, Liu
   Chen, Xueguang
TI Vulnerability analysis of interdependent infrastructure systems: A
   methodological framework
DE Interdependent infrastructure systems; Network model; Vulnerability
   analysis
ID INPUT-OUTPUT MODEL; INOPERABILITY; PERFORMANCE; FAILURES
AB Infrastructure systems such as power and water supplies make up the cornerstone of modern society which is essential for the functioning of a society and its economy. They become more and more interconnected and interdependent with the development of scientific technology and social economy. Risk and vulnerability analysis of interdependent infrastructures for security considerations has become an important subject, and some achievements have been made in this area. Since different infrastructure systems have different structural and functional properties, there is no universal all-encompassing 'silver bullet solution' to the problem of analyzing the vulnerability associated with interdependent infrastructure systems. So a framework of analysis is required. This paper takes the power and water systems of a major city in China as an example and develops a framework for the analysis of the vulnerability of interdependent infrastructure systems. Four interface design strategies based on distance, betweenness, degree, and clustering coefficient are constructed. Then two types of vulnerability (long-term vulnerability and focused vulnerability) are illustrated and analyzed. Finally, a method for ranking critical components in interdependent infrastructures is given for protection purposes. It is concluded that the framework proposed here is useful for vulnerability analysis of interdependent systems and it will be helpful for the system owners to make better decisions on infrastructure design and protection. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000302423700031
ER

PT J
AU KHALAF, S
   ALALAWI, A
AF KHALAF, S
   ALALAWI, A
TI MAINTENANCE PHILOSOPHY AND APPROACH FOR A DUAL-PURPOSE PLANT
AB This paper presents the maintenance methodology and approach followed by the owners of a dual purpose plant which have led to improved availability and plant reliability, lower maintenance costs and lower power and water production costs.
   The paper highlights the bold decisions made after analyzing Sitra Power and Water Station availability and reliability records. They were aimed at improving operating staff capabilities and procedures and evaluating the methods available to improve plant maintenance. The experience gained in operating this plant for over a decade is presented. Improvement of Sitra Power and Water Station reliability and availability and lowered production costs were achieved after careful implementation of effective maintenance techniques.
UT WOS:A1994NT58300028
ER

PT J
AU Jabari, F
   Arasteh, H
   Sheikhi-Fini, A
   Ghaebi, H
   Bannae-Sharifian, MB
   Mohammadi-Ivatloo, B
   Mohammadpourfard, M
AF Jabari, Farkhondeh
   Arasteh, Hamidreza
   Sheikhi-Fini, Alireza
   Ghaebi, Hadi
   Bannae-Sharifian, Mohammad-Bagher
   Mohammadi-Ivatloo, Behnam
   Mohammadpourfard, Mousa
TI A biogas-steam combined cycle for sustainable development of
   industrial-scale water-power hybrid microgrids: design and optimal
   scheduling
DE biogas-steam combined cycle; cogeneration; waste heat recovery;
   water-power nexus
ID CELL-COMBINED HEAT; THERMOECONOMIC ANALYSIS; THERMODYNAMIC ANALYSES;
   HYDROGEN-PRODUCTION; ENERGY; SYSTEM; OPTIMIZATION; PERFORMANCE; BIOMASS;
   WIND
AB Lack of sufficient pure water resources and energy crises are two important issues in summer, especially for remote communities located in tropical zones. Electricity is used for seawater desalination, and power generation units need freshwater for energy extraction, conversion, transportation, and distribution. The design and operation of renewable energy sources based on water-energy hybrid grids therefore reduce on-peak electricity demand, potable water scarcity, and pollutant emissions, significantly. This paper proposes a combined cycle for water and power production and investigates its performance under different ambient air temperatures and various load levels. First, biogas is employed to fuel a gas turbine electricity generation process. Then, its waste heat is utilized in a steam turbine heat-and-power extraction cycle. This heating flow is used in a water-heater air-cooler desalination process. A non-linear optimization problem is developed under engineering equation solver (EES) and generalized algebraic modeling system (GAMS) with the aim of finding the near-optimal operating points of the proposed industrial-scale co-generation system, considering its technical constraints and changes of fresh water and power demands during a 24 h operating period. This stand-alone microgrid is able to produce 2.8 L of drinking water per second and 5.8 MW of electricity for large industrial sectors with a minimum efficiency of 37%. Replacing natural gas with biofuels in the water-power nexus contributes most to emissions mitigation, peak electrical-demand reduction, and sustainable water treatment. (c) 2021 Society of Chemical Industry and John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
UT WOS:000710366400001
ER

PT J
AU Chen, QY
   Cheng, SY
   Yu, ST
   Guo, XW
   Sun, ZY
   Hu, ZM
   Dai, LC
AF Chen, Qiaoyan
   Cheng, Siyuan
   Yu, Shuting
   Guo, Xiaowei
   Sun, Zhongyi
   Hu, Zhongmin
   Dai, Licong
TI Forest restoration in tropical forests recovers topsoil water retention
   but does not improve deep soil layers
DE Soil physicochemical properties; Soil hydrology; Forest restoration;
   Tropical forests
ID ORGANIC-MATTER; SUCCESSION; REGENERATION; DYNAMICS; QUALITY; CARBON
AB Tropical primary forests have been rapidly reduced in recent decade owing to slash-and-burn, leading to the formation of tropical secondary forests in different recovery stages. However, it is still unclear whether the soil water retention capacity in secondary forests can recover to the level of soil water retention in old-growth forest. In this study, three recovery stages of tropical secondary forests (i.e. early recovery stage, middle recovery stage, late recovery stage), and old-growth forest were selected for comparison in tropical forests on Hainan Island. By using spatiotemporal substitution method, we investigated the variation of soil water retention in three recovery stages and old-growth forest, and revealed its dominant controlling factors. The results showed that 0-60 cm soil water retention was improved as recovery stage progresses. Specifically, the topsoil (0-10 cm) soil water retention in later stage almost could recover the level of old-growth forest, whereas the deep soil (10-60 cm) water retention may not recover the level of old-growth forest as recovery stage progresses. Additionally, the soil structure and soil nutrients also improve while the soil aggregates stability reduced as recovery stage progresses. Among these properties, total porosity was found to be the most important factor controlling soil water retention, accounting for 27.44 %, followed by bulk density (19.62 %) and capillary porosity (16.83 %), but soil particle size composition had a weakly effect on soil water retention. Overall, our results suggested that forest restoration is effective measures improve topsoil water retention capacity, but the deep soil water retention capacity may need more years to recovery. These findings have implications for the management and retention of primary forests and the restoration of secondary forests. (c) 2025 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water & Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
UT WOS:001587241200001
ER

PT J
AU Karakoc, DB
   Barker, K
   Gonzalez, AD
AF Karakoc, Deniz Berfin
   Barker, Kash
   Gonzalez, Andres D.
TI Analyzing the tradeoff between vulnerability and recoverability
   investments for interdependent infrastructure networks
DE Interdependent infrastructures; Resilience; Preparedness investments;
   Tradeoff analysis; Optimization; Post-disruption recovery
ID DISASTER PREPAREDNESS; SOCIAL VULNERABILITY; FACILITY LOCATION;
   RESILIENCE; SYSTEM; MODEL; OPTIMIZATION; FRAMEWORK; HURRICANE; METRICS
AB Critical cyber-physical infrastructure networks such as electric power and water networks form the backbone of a functional society as these networks provide the main resources for economic productivity, healthy communities, and general day-to-day operations. However, (i) these infrastructure networks have become more interdependent on each other in terms of functionality, and (ii) community networks become more dependent on these critical infrastructures in terms of existence. Thus, studying the entirety of their resilience process-both vulnerability and recoverability against a disruption-is of importance, particularly analyzing how investing (i) before to strengthen components versus (ii) afterward to restore disrupted components can affect the resilience of infra-structure networks in terms of system performance and time. This paper takes a first step toward analyzing the tradeoff between reducing vulnerability and enhancing recoverability in interdependent infrastructure networks with multiple time and budget allocations, accounting for not only the performance of the physical networks but also the potentially socially vulnerable communities that rely upon them. The proposed model (i) maximizes a measure of the resilience of the interdependent infrastructure networks, while it (ii) minimizes the total cost associated with the pre-and post-event resource allocation. The model is illustrated with networks in Shelby County, TN, USA.
UT WOS:001007134100001
ER

PT C
AU Demetriou, DW
   Pandey, P
   Shankar, KM
   Shankars, V
   Para, V
   Mohanasundaram, A
AF Demetriou, Dustin W.
   Pandey, Pushpendra
   Shankar, K. M.
   Shankars, Vidhya
   Para, Veerendra
   Mohanasundaram, Aiswarya
GP IEEE
TI Energy Efficiency and Reliability Transformation at the IBM India
   Software Lab Data Center
DE energy efficiency; water cooling; facility design; solar power; high
   voltage DC
AB This paper describes a case study on the adoption of innovative technologies that enabled energy efficiency, reliability and extended the life of the India Software Lab's data center at IBM Bangalore. Essential to the transformation was the adoption of water cooling in nearly 50% of the data center including both at IT rack level and direct water cooling at the chip. The overall cooling architecture uses a high evaporator temperature, free-cooling chiller design to enable significant energy savings. The strategically designed ring plumbing architecture enables redundancy while allowing scalability with existing chilled water infrastructure reducing the dependency on perimeter cooling units which were reaching end of life conditions. The approach enabled a 48% increase in added IT equipment power capacity resulting in nearly 35,000 square feet of recovered data center foot print. The solution did this while increasing the data center infrastructure efficiency by over 15% and reducing the maximum data center temperature by nearly 10 degrees Celsius. To reduce the dependency on un-reliable power from the utility grid and expensive diesel generators, a photovoltaic-based high voltage direct current solar power system was implemented. The system used a unique multi-source power supply to enable intelligent, simultaneous access to grid power, solar power and backup battery power to supply 380 VDC power to IBM high-end servers. Using measurements of the solar power system output, and with government incentives, the solar power system shows a return-oninvestment of less than 4 years.
UT WOS:000390436000059
ER

PT C
AU Yin, ZB
   Dou, SX
   Bai, HF
   Hou, YY
AF Yin, Zhibin
   Dou, Shengxia
   Bai, Huifeng
   Hou, Yingying
BE Xu, B
TI Light-Weighted Security Access scheme of Broadband Power Line
   Communications for Multi-Source Information Collection
DE Multi-meter reading; Power Line Communication; Security access
AB With the continuously development of smart meter-reading technologies for decades, remote information collection of electricity, water, gas and heat meters have been realized. Due to the difference of electrical interfaces and communication protocols among various types of meters, communication modes of meter terminals are not so compatible, it is difficult to realize communication optimization of electricity, water, gas and heat meters information collection services. In addition, with the development of power consumption information acquisition system, the number of acquisition terminals soars greatly and the data of terminal access is highly concurrent. Therefore, the risk of security access is increasing. This paper presents a light-weighted security access scheme of power line communication based on multi-source data acquisition of electricity, water, gas and heat meters, which separates multi-source data acquisition services and achieve services security isolation and channel security isolation. The communication reliability and security of the meter-reading service of "electricity, water, gas and heat" will be improved and the integrated meter service will be realized reliably.
UT WOS:000491352900212
ER

PT J
AU Mu, MF
   Zhang, ZX
   Cai, XM
   Tang, QH
AF Mu, Mengfei
   Zhang, Zhenxing
   Cai, Ximing
   Tang, Qiuhong
TI A water-electricity nexus model to analyze thermoelectricity supply
   reliability under environmental regulations and economic penalties
   during drought events
DE Water-electricity nexus; Thermoelectricity; Cooling water; Economic
   penalties; Drought
ID POWER GENERATION; OPTIMIZATION; US; CONSTRAINTS; IMPACTS; SYSTEMS;
   FUTURE; PLANTS
AB A reliable thermoelectricity supply system requires available cooling water. Recent electricity supply failures that have occurred all over the world during drought events indicate that the thermoelectricity system is vulnerable. However, knowledge and policy gaps remain regarding water-electricity interactions at the watershed scale. In this study, a water-electricity nexus model is developed to facilitate electricity generation decisions and environmental policy designs involving cooling water consumption and temperature controls. This nexus model consists of three modules, a physically based hydrologic module, a decentralized optimization module, and a thermoelectricity generation module, which are closely integrated at the daily time step. The model is used to quantify tradeoffs between environmental impacts and potential electricity supplies at the power plant and watershed levels. A case study is conducted to demonstrate the model application for a watershed-wide, coordinated water-energy policy design under different combinations of environmental regulations and economic penalties during a drought event.
UT WOS:000499482000005
ER

PT J
AU Chen, Y
   Pridasawas, W
   Lundqvist, P
AF Chen, Y.
   Pridasawas, Wimolsiri
   Lundqvist, Per
TI Dynamic simulation of a solar-driven carbon dioxide transcritical power
   system for small scale combined heat and power production
DE Carbon dioxide; Solar; Efficiency; Transcritical cycle; Combined heat
   and power
ID RANKINE-CYCLE; CO2; RECOVERY
AB Carbon dioxide is an environmental benign natural working fluid and has been proposed as a working media for a solar-driven power system In the current work, the dynamic performance of a small scale solar-driven carbon dioxide power system is analyzed by dynamic simulation tool TRNSYS 16 (Klein et al., 2004) and Engineering Equation Solver (EES) (Klein, 2004) using co-solving technique
   Both daily performance and yearly performance of the proposed system have been simulated Different system operating parameters, which will influence the system performance, have been discussed. Under the Swedish climatic condition, the maximum daily power production is about 12 kW h and the maximum monthly power production is about 215 kW h with the proposed system working conditions Besides the power being produced, the system can also produce about 10 times much thermal energy. which can be used for space heating, domestic hot water supply or driving absorption chillers The simulation results show that the proposed system is a promising and environmental benign alternative for conventional low-grade heat source utilization system (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000279126500003
ER

PT J
AU Graveline, N
   Grémont, M
AF Graveline, Nina
   Gremont, Marine
TI Measuring and understanding the microeconomic resilience of businesses
   to lifeline service interruptions due to natural disasters
DE Economic resilience; Indirect impacts; Resilience indicator; Business
   interruption; Lifeline service disruption; Disaster risk reduction
ID CLIMATE-CHANGE; ADAPTIVE CAPACITY; VULNERABILITY; ADAPTATION; RISK;
   FRAMEWORK; RESPONSES; RECOVERY; INSIGHTS; FLOOD
AB Facing rising natural hazards, urban environments are particularly prone to suffer economic impacts from business interruptions due to disaster-induced lifeline service disruptions. Enhancing the ability of local economies to maintain function and hasten recovery in the aftermath of natural disasters triggers the need to both measure economic resilience and better understand its drivers. Based on a conceptual framework that highlights the peculiarities of resilience with respect to vulnerability and adaptation, this paper develops a scientifically sound operational indicator of the economic resilience of individual businesses to lifeline service interruptions caused by natural disasters. The indicator is constructed so as to compare patterns of economic resilience across firms or events and identify hotspots of poor resilience that public policies should target as a priority. In order to demonstrate its scientific and operational relevance, it is applied to individual businesses located in the Urban Community of Central Martinique (French West Indies). A business survey is used to collect empirical data for two hypothetical equal hazard scenarios leading to the disruption of the drinking water and electricity networks. An econometric analysis then investigates the dependence of economic resilience to a set of individual characteristics such as business demographics and operating characteristics. Results show that businesses are relatively more resilient to drinking water interruptions than to electricity cuts and that turnover and flexibility in both working hours and production processes are significant drivers of economic resilience. We discuss the limitations of this indicator and pinpoint the challenge for future research of isolating pre-existing sensitivity to shocks from overall economic impacts.
UT WOS:000413936100054
ER

PT J
AU Zhang, QX
   Ren, ZQ
   Jia, PX
   Shi, JJ
   Yin, JY
   Lei, DD
   Gao, YH
   Liu, NS
AF Zhang, Qixiang
   Ren, Ziqi
   Jia, Peixue
   Shi, Junjie
   Yin, Jianyu
   Lei, Dandan
   Gao, Yihua
   Liu, Nishuang
TI An Ultra-Miniaturized Fiber Humidity Sensor Based on Near-Parallel Ion
   Pathways Induced Efficient Water-Electricity Conversion
DE fiber sensors; humidity sensors; ion transport; ordered nanochannels;
   water-electricity conversion
ID CELLULOSE
AB Humidity sensors are vital for ambient monitoring, but existing sensors focus on moisture absorption, overlooking the indispensable role of ion channels in the water-electricity conversion process. Here, an ultra-miniaturized fiber humidity (MFH) sensor based on near-parallel ion pathways is presented. The well-designed nanochannels significantly facilitate ion transport due to the stable charge distribution and the confined ions migration within near-parallel nanostructure, which improves the water-electricity conversion efficiency of moisture-sensitive fibers. Optimized nanochannels enable the MFH sensor to improve the response/recovery speed by approximate to 5 times compared to the disordered nanochannels. Additionally, the MFH sensor can be woven for ultra-miniaturization (0.50 mm2), which is much smaller than current sensors. Therefore, the integrated MFH sensor array demonstrated exceptionally high spatial resolution (sensor density of 1 mm-1), highlighting its potential in flexible wearables. This work provides new optimization strategies and assembly means for designing the high-performance humidity sensors of the next generation.
UT WOS:001357847400001
ER

PT C
AU Yao, XB
   Han, CF
   Chen, Q
   Meng, LP
AF Yao, Xiaobo
   Han, Chuanfeng
   Chen, Qian
   Meng, Lingpeng
BE Smith, IFC
   Domer, B
TI Vulnerability Distribution Model of Critical Infrastructures Based on
   Topological System Simulation
DE Critical infrastructure systems; Vulnerability distribution and
   assessment; Topological network simulation
AB Urban critical infrastructures provide citizens with lifeline functions such as water, electricity and energy, etc. These interconnected infrastructure systems require reliable models for vulnerability measurement and topological controllability against usual disruptions and unusual hazards. This paper proposes a vulnerability distribution model to describe vulnerability distribution patterns in critical infrastructure system. To describe transmission of vulnerability between different infrastructure components or topological nodes, a vulnerability distribution network ( VDN) is developed for simulation of negative impact on each node. The results are represented in a rasterized distribution diagrams by three metrics of vulnerability: the total number of effective topological nodes, the node's serviceability and the descent rate of coverage of infrastructural service. Then this model is applied to a case study of a local gas system and a local electric power system. Results show that a node's vulnerability and serviceability is closely related to the node's degree, especially the out-degree, while overall system's vulnerability is greatly affected by descent rate of coverage of each infrastructural service node. The model also generates probabilistic simulation graphs to show continuous vulnerability distribution in areas covered by the specified critical infrastructure systems. The graphic representation of VDN model results further helps infrastructure managers conduct route planning for transportation of hazard goods and optimize allocation of emergency resources.
UT WOS:000482715500026
ER

PT J
AU Massad, SG
   Nieto, FJ
   Palta, M
   Smith, M
   Clark, R
   Thabet, AA
AF Massad, Salwa G.
   Nieto, F. Javier
   Palta, Mari
   Smith, Maureen
   Clark, Roseanne
   Thabet, Abdel-Aziz
TI Health-related quality of life of Palestinian preschoolers in the Gaza
   Strip: a cross-sectional study
ID WAR-RELATED STRESS; CHILD-DEVELOPMENT; MENTAL-HEALTH;
   DEVELOPING-COUNTRIES; PEDSQL(TM)-4.0; RELIABILITY; RESILIENCE; MOTHERS;
   VULNERABILITY; PREVALENCE
AB Background: Research on children's responses to wartime trauma has mostly addressed Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). However, PTSD is only one aspect of a complex set of responses. This study proposes to expand knowledge of well-being in children exposed to political violence through widening the conceptualization of well-being beyond PTSD, morbidity, and mortality by measuring health-related quality of life (HRQOL) and its facets, physical health, and psychosocial health.
   Methods: In 2007, we used a cross-sectional random sample of kindergartens to examine factors associated with HRQOL, as measured by the PedsQL 4.0, in 350 preschoolers in the Gaza Strip, Palestine, where political violence and deprivation are widespread.
   Results: About 65% of the mothers reported severely impaired psychosocial and emotional functioning in their children. Preschoolers had lower HRQOL than the US reference sample and samples of children in other low income countries with large effect size. HRQOL was comparable to those of US children with several chronic diseases. Factors associated with lower HRQOL were older child age, male gender, and more exposures to traumatic events. Factors associated with HRQOL subscales were for lower psychosocial health: older child age, history of food, water, and electricity deprivation during incursion, and witnessing assassination of people by rockets. For lower physical health: older child age, history of food, water, and electricity deprivation during incursion, and having heard of a killing of a friend by soldiers.
   Conclusions: HRQOL, including psychosocial health and emotional functioning is often severely impaired among preschoolers in the Gaza Strip. Exposure to both violent and non-violent negative events was associated with HRQOL in preschoolers.
UT WOS:000290621300001
ER

PT J
AU Lei, H
   Zhang, X
   Han, XY
   Zaib, Q
   Putra, AS
AF Lei, Hang
   Zhang, Xin
   Han, Xinyi
   Zaib, Qammer
   Putra, Agusta Samodra
TI Exploring Virtual Water Network Dynamics of China's Electricity Trade:
   Insights into the Energy-Water Nexus
DE virtual water; electricity trade; energy-water nexus; complex network
   analysis; quadratic assignment procedure
ID POWER-GENERATION; ECOLOGICAL NETWORK; LINK PREDICTION; VULNERABILITY;
   TRANSMISSION; CONSUMPTION; CLIMATE; SYSTEM; PERSPECTIVE; SCARCITY
AB The escalating challenges regarding the sustainable utilization of coupled energy and water resources require the implementation of synergistic management. Electricity-related virtual water flows could result in the transfer of freshwater vulnerability and environmental inequalities. Aiming to systematically characterize its holistic patterns, network structure and formation mechanisms, we constructed a virtual water network for electricity trade in China based on provincial lifecycle water footprints; portrayed the statistical features, structural stability and interregional equilibrium using Complex Network Analysis (CNA); and introduced the Quadratic Assignment Procedure (QAP) to gain socio-environmental insights into the driving factors. The results show that the virtual water transferred with China's interprovincial electricity trade increased from 851.24 million m3 to 3441.58 million m3 from 2006-2020. Eastern, developed provinces with a high electricity demand have effectively relieved their water stress by expanding import sources, but the transfer of water resource benefits from western exporting regions (especially in the arid northern provinces) is irreversible. The current electricity market forces reflect the scarcity of energy and capital factors in the context of China's interprovincial trade, but not the scarcity of water resources. Consequently, we proposed integrated management strategies including strengthening sectoral collaboration, optimizing energy-use structures and establishing ecological compensation mechanisms to build a more water-efficient future power system.
UT WOS:001120969100001
ER

PT J
AU Zhang, YL
   Yang, ND
   Lall, U
AF Zhang, Yanlu
   Yang, Naiding
   Lall, Upmanu
TI Modeling and simulation of the vulnerability of interdependent
   power-water infrastructure networks to cascading failures
DE Interdependent infrastructure networks; vulnerability; cascading
   failures; complex network; numerical simulation
ID SCALE-FREE NETWORKS; PROPAGATION; BEHAVIOR; ERROR
AB Critical infrastructures are becoming increasingly interdependent and vulnerable to cascading failures. Existing studies have analyzed the vulnerability of interdependent networks to cascading failures from the static perspective of network topology structure. This paper develops a more realistic cascading failures model that considers the dynamic redistribution of load in power network to explore the vulnerability of interdependent power-water networks. In this model, the critical tolerance threshold is originally proposed to indicate the vulnerability of network to cascading failures. In addition, some key parameters that are important to network vulnerability are identified and quantified through numerical simulation. Results show that cascading failures can be prevented when the values of tolerance parameter are above a critical tolerance threshold. Otherwise interdependent networks collapse after attacking a critical fraction of power nodes. Interdependent networks become more vulnerable with the increase in interdependence strength, which implies the importance of protecting those interconnected nodes to reduce the consequences of cascading failures. Interdependent networks are most vulnerable under high-load attack, which shows the significance of protecting high-load nodes.
UT WOS:000371807900006
ER

PT J
AU Xian, H
   Jeong, CE
AF Xian, He
   Jeong, Cha Eun
TI Modeling the damage and recovery of interdependent critical
   infrastructure systems from natural hazards
DE Civil infrastructures; Dependency; Dynamic Inoperability Input output
   Model; Graph theory; Hurricane winds; Recovery
ID INPUT-OUTPUT MODEL; INOPERABILITY; MITIGATION; RESILIENCE; REGRESSION
AB Understanding the impact of disasters to civil infrastructure network will guide strategic pre-disaster hazard mitigation and post-disaster recovery planning of a community. The facilities in civil infrastructure network depend on each other to exchange product, information or services. When disaster happens, these dependencies would aggravate the initial damage and lead to cascading failures. Thus, understanding the dependencies among infrastructure facilities is essential in modeling the damage and recovery of a community under disruptive events. This study builds upon the Dynamic Inoperability Input-output Model to assess the recovery of the civil infrastructure facilities by considering the facility-level dependencies. The recovery of the integrated network was assessed utilizing the characteristic parameters from graph theory. This methodology was demonstrated with a hypothetical infrastructure network, consisting of power, water and telecommunication systems under a hurricane. The sensitivity of the network recovery to the dependency measures was investigated, which showed that the recovery time is sensitive to the level of dependency between different systems. The proposed methodology was compared with a conventional model with system-level interdependencies and showed that considering facility-level dependencies would yield more refined result. The model was then applied to simulate the power system restoration of Galveston City, Texas under Hurricane Ike.
UT WOS:000437961000014
ER

PT J
AU Bilton, AM
   Kelley, LC
AF Bilton, Amy M.
   Kelley, Leah C.
TI Design of power systems for reverse osmosis desalination in remote
   communities
DE Renewable energy; Reverse osmosis; System design; Optimization
ID RO DESALINATION; PV; FEASIBILITY; ECONOMICS; DRIVEN; PLANT
AB Many remote communities lack access to a reliable water supply. They often have access to brackish groundwater or seawater, making reverse osmosis desalination a possible solution. However, reverse osmosis desalination is an energy-intensive process and many remote communities are off the electrical grid. Determining the most economic reverse osmosis system configuration and electrical power source for a given remote community is a challenge due to their unique resource availabilities. This paper presents an optimization-based approach to compare the economics of different small-scale reverse osmosis systems and power sources for remote communities. In this approach, physical models describe the performance of electrical power systems composed of photovoltaics, wind turbines, diesel generators, batteries, and hybrid systems. These power system models are coupled to a reverse osmosis system model to determine the water production. An optimization is performed to determine the most economic power system configuration, reverse osmosis system size, and water storage size that meets the desired water production reliability. The reliability is expressed as loss of water probability, which is computed using hourly environmental data. Here, this method is used to configure a reverse osmosis system for small communities. Results are presented for locations in Honduras, Eritrea, and Australia. Results show that the local climatic conditions greatly influence the economic attractiveness of different technologies. The variety of solutions found using this approach demonstrate the ability of the method to aid in the design of a power system and reverse osmosis system configuration for any location.
UT WOS:000360494600032
ER

PT J
AU Bertsiou, M
   Feloni, E
   Karpouzos, D
   Baltas, E
AF Bertsiou, M.
   Feloni, E.
   Karpouzos, D.
   Baltas, E.
TI Water management and electricity output of a Hybrid Renewable Energy
   System (HRES) in Fournoi Island in Aegean Sea
DE HRES; Wind power; Electricity; Water management; Fournoi island
ID PUMPED HYDRO STORAGE; WIND POWER; SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT; RURAL
   ELECTRIFICATION; DESALINATION; PLANT; SOLAR; CHALLENGES; OPTIONS; DESIGN
AB The necessity of mitigating the consequences of energy dependence and water scarcity in remote areas, such as small islands puts forward the investigation of renewable energy sources. Especially in Aegean, the rich wind potential and natural topography favors the use of Hybrid Renewable Energy System (HRES). In this research work, a HRES in Fournoi island, in eastern Aegean sea, is designed in order to utilize hydropower for electricity generation and cover drinking and agricultural water demands through desalination of sea water. The proposed system includes four wind turbines, a desalination plant, a small hydroelectric station, a pumping station and two water reservoirs. Concerning the generated power from the wind turbines, it is assumed that 30% is incorporated directly to the power grid, while the remaining 70% is available for water pumping and desalination. In order to evaluate the performance of the system, three scenarios are being studied, based on different combinations of fulfillment of electricity and water needs and a ten-year reliability is conducted. This study leads to results of the project's potential in covering both water and electricity demands of the local society. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000423008500069
ER

PT J
AU Putri, SA
   Moazeni, F
   Khazaei, J
AF Putri, Saskia A.
   Moazeni, Faegheh
   Khazaei, Javad
TI Predictive control of interlinked water-energy microgrids
DE Water-energy microgrid; Multiple input-multiple output; Model predictive
   control; Smart water distribution system; Microgrid system; Energy
   conservation
ID MANAGEMENT; MPC; OPERATION
AB Although water and energy systems are interdependent, they are still designed individually due to their complexity. This paper proposes a multiple input multiple output (MIMO) model predictive control (MPC) for demand management of an integrated water distribution system (WDS) supplied by an islanded microgrid (MG) system, offering an additional opportunity for energy-saving at the WDS. This strategy benefits the island and remote communities, which have limited access to the centralized electric grid. The existing literature either used an open-loop approach for energy management of water-energy microgrids or ignored the interconnected nature and MIMO nature of these systems. Compared to that, the proposed closed-loop energy management system is developed to address the detailed dynamics of assets, the inherent interconnections between water and energy networks, and to provide resilience as well as energy saving and demand management capabilities. The integrated MPC algorithm is designed in discrete time, utilizing a state-space model and sequential quadratic programming (SQP) as the solution method. Considering the intensive use of electricity by the pumps in WDS, their energy consumption is accommodated by an islanded microgrid system that incorporates a diesel generator, renewable energy sources (wind and solar), and a battery bank that serves as an energy source and a storage device. The proposed approach is investigated using base water demand from a real-world community, Telford, in Pennsylvania. Several case studies, such as variations in renewable energy contributions and increments of the control actions, are carried out to demonstrate the feasibility and reliability of the integrated MPC to provide efficient water and energy demand management concurrently.
UT WOS:001033806800001
ER

PT J
AU Ahumada-Cervantes, R
   Velázquez-Angulo, G
   Rodríguez-Gallegos, HB
   Flores-Tavizón, E
   Félix-Gastélum, R
   Romero-González, J
   Granados-Olivas, A
AF Ahumada-Cervantes, Ramiro
   Velazquez-Angulo, Gilberto
   Rodriguez-Gallegos, Hugo B.
   Flores-Tavizon, Edith
   Felix-Gastelum, Ruben
   Romero-Gonzalez, Jaime
   Granados-Olivas, Alfredo
TI An indicator tool for assessing local vulnerability to climate change in
   the Mexican agricultural sector
DE Agricultural sector; Basic census area; Climate change; Indicator tool;
   Vulnerability
ID ADAPTATION
AB To propose specific adaptation strategies in the agricultural sector based on vulnerability to climate variability and climate change at the local level, we built a vulnerability index using an indicator tool at a fine spatial scale. This index was applied as a case study in the municipality of Guasave, Sinaloa, Mexico, at the basic census area (BCA) level. We used a total of 37 variables organized into three groups with equal weighting: exposure (13), sensitivity (13), and adaptive capacity (11). From the 20 rural BCAs located in the study area, eight were categorized as having very low vulnerability; five had low vulnerability; two had medium vulnerability because of the lack of basic services (sewers, water, and electricity) and a high rural population density; three had high vulnerability due to a high frequency of days with temperatures below 5 A degrees C and the lack of basic services; and two had very high vulnerability, characterized by a high percentage of production units (PUs) with losses due to climate factors, a high rural population density, and a high frequency of days with temperatures below 5 A degrees C. Approximately 50 % of the municipal rural population lives in BCAs vulnerable to climate change. This methodology allowed us to identify the most susceptible agricultural areas at the local level and the variables that require more attention so that we can propose adaptation strategies and minimize vulnerability due to climate change.
UT WOS:000393036700009
ER

PT J
AU Miao, HQ
   Gao, SY
   Wang, D
AF Miao, Huiquan
   Gao, Siyuan
   Wang, Ding
TI Framework for Designing Virtual Water and Power Supply Networks with
   Interdependent Characteristics for Resilience Assessment
DE virtual city; interdependent infrastructure; water supply network; power
   supply network; resilience
ID COMMUNITY BUILDING PORTFOLIOS; SEISMIC RESILIENCE; COMPLEX NETWORKS;
   RECOVERY; FAILURES; MODEL
AB Urban water and power supply networks with interdependent characteristics are essential components of urban infrastructures and play an important role in maintaining the daily operations and post-disaster recovery of cities. The aim of this study is to provide a method for researchers of resilient cities to build virtual water and power supply networks according to their basic physical mechanisms so that they can complete the risk or resilience evaluation of benchmark cities when some confidential infrastructure information is difficult to obtain. The innovation is that a new design framework for urban virtual water and power networks with interdependent characteristics combined with geographic information is suggested based on the perspective of practical engineering. After giving an overview of the framework, this paper presents the planning and design of the water and power supply networks as well as the interdependence between them in detail. Then the water and power supply networks of a virtual city called Virtual Shangcheng City are established, which verify the feasibility and practicality of the approach. This framework can establish virtual water and power supply networks with interdependent characteristics that conform to actual engineering and urban geographic information characteristics. Moreover, it can provide an effective modeling method for water and power supply networks in the absence of data for urban resilience and disaster risk studies.
UT WOS:000874206600001
ER

PT J
AU Amiralipour, M
   Kouhikamali, R
AF Amiralipour, M.
   Kouhikamali, R.
TI Guilan combined power plant in Iran: As case study for feasibility
   investigation of converting the combined power plant into water and
   power unit
DE Combined power plant; Hybrid desalination unit; Combined water and
   power; Feasibility study; Economic investigation
ID MULTI EFFECT DISTILLATION; REVERSE-OSMOSIS; COMBINED-CYCLE;
   MULTIOBJECTIVE OPTIMIZATION; THERMOECONOMIC ANALYSIS; THERMODYNAMIC
   ANALYSIS; SEAWATER DESALINATION; EFFICIENCY ASSESSMENT; SYSTEM;
   COGENERATION
AB This study aims to find a cost effective solution for converting an existing combined power plant into a CWP system including the membrane and thermal desalination units. Without applying major structural change in power plant, to supply fresh water, the steam lines extracted from heat recovery steam generator are used in the thermal desalination unit and membrane desalination system is connected to the gas turbine. An investigation is performed on the produced water and performance of power plant associated with different conditions of electricity and water demands. Also, the influence of steam corresponding to the low and high enthalpy conditions on the performance of thermal desalination unit and power plant is explored. Furthermore, in view of the production capacity of electricity associated with the gas units and consumption demands of various seasons, the influence of membrane desalination unit on the water production is illustrated. An economic investigation is performed to estimate the selling price of water in each unit. It is concluded that in the thermal unit, using HP line produces about 25,000 m(3)/day, while the LP line causes up to 7000 m(3)/day water. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000534685400073
ER

PT J
AU Akyon, SH
   Onur, G
   Kolesnik, P
   Nazzal, Z
AF Akyon, Seyma Handan
   Onur, Gulsah
   Kolesnik, Pavlo
   Nazzal, Zaheer
TI Improving Healthcare Resilience in Wars: Insights from Recent Conflicts
DE Patient safety; disaster medicine; health care facilities; warfare;
   disaster planning
ID PREPAREDNESS
AB This article highlights the critical need for additional security measures in health care facilities during armed conflicts, emphasizing the importance of securing vital resources such as water, electricity, medical care, infrastructure, and essential medical equipment, medications, etc., to ensure proper care for the sick and vulnerable persons. We examine the impact of conflicts in Ukraine and Palestine. This article aims to draw lessons from historical experiences and propose strategies to enhance health care resilience, focusing on key topics such as essential infrastructure, protection of health care facilities, the physical preparedness of hospitals, and the availability of alternative sources for water and electricity. Enhancing the resilience of health services requires comprehensive disaster preparedness plans for hospitals that will ensure reliable power supplies in challenging situations and provide resilient physical protection for health facilities during times of conflict. Medical facilities must prepare for emergencies involving chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear events, implementing water supply plans, and maintaining sufficient stocks of food and materials.
UT WOS:001729919500001
ER

PT J
AU Cheng, ZY
   Wang, JF
   Hu, B
   Chen, LQ
   Lou, JW
   Cheng, SF
   Wu, WF
AF Cheng, Ziyang
   Wang, Jiangfeng
   Hu, Bin
   Chen, Liangqi
   Lou, Juwei
   Cheng, Shangfang
   Wu, Weifeng
TI Improved modelling for ammonia-water power cycle coupled with turbine
   optimization design: A comparison study
DE 4E analysis; Ammonia -water power cycle; Kalina cycle; Radial -inflow
   turbine; Emission -free heat source; Waste -heat recovery
ID ORGANIC RANKINE-CYCLE; RADIAL-INFLOW TURBINE; WASTE HEAT-RECOVERY;
   KALINA CYCLE; MULTIOBJECTIVE OPTIMIZATION; THERMOECONOMIC ANALYSIS;
   EFFICIENCY PREDICTION; SYSTEM; DRIVEN; EXCHANGER
AB The ammonia -water power cycle is one of the most promising power cycles for emission -free heat source utilization and distributed combined systems. In relative literature, the turbine efficiency, which directly and significantly influences the system performance, is assumed to be constant. However, this assumption may lead to inaccurate sensitivity analyses as well as suboptimal designs. In order to enhance the accuracy and reliability of analyses and optimizations of the ammonia -water power cycle, this paper proposes a comprehensive model that incorporates a one-dimensional turbine optimization design model, enabling more accurate and reliable energy, exergy, economic, and environmental (4E) analysis of the cycle. To evaluate the improvement and provide insights into how earlier analyses can be interpreted, the proposed model is applied in 4E analyses of a Kalina cycle and results are further compared with those obtained from the conventional model. The comparison shows deviations of up to 26 % and identifies an appropriate constant turbine isentropic efficiency that yields relatively low error for the conventional model. Additionally, two environmental indicators, namely specific global warming potential and specific environmental impact potential, are proposed for power cycles utilizing emission -free heat sources to compare environmental performance between cycles with different power outputs and configurations.
UT WOS:001171564800001
ER

PT J
AU Obringer, R
   Nateghi, R
   Knee, J
   Madani, K
   Kumar, R
AF Obringer, Renee
   Nateghi, Roshanak
   Knee, Jessica
   Madani, Kaveh
   Kumar, Rohini
TI Contemporary climate analogs project strong regional differences in the
   future water and electricity demand across US cities
ID CHANGE IMPACTS; ENERGY; SENSITIVITY; CALIFORNIA; DROUGHT; SYSTEM
AB Water and electricity systems are highly interconnected in terms of supply (e.g., electricity is used in the treat-ment and distribution of water) and demand (e.g., appliances that use water within homes also use elec-tricity). Understanding the impact that climate change may have on coupled water and electricity demand is a crucial task for ensuring resilient planning and sustainable management of water and energy infrastruc-ture. Here, we leverage an efficient methodology that integrates contemporary climate analogs and machine learning to project the city-level coupled water and electricity demand of 46 major US cities into the future. The results show strong regional differences, with some cities possibly experiencing increases in summer water and electricity demand of up to 15% and 20%, respectively, because of climate change. Obtaining pro-jections of future water and electricity demand under climate change is critical for building resilient infrastruc-ture in the face of climate change.
UT WOS:001115486700001
ER

PT C
AU Hugues, KW
   Chowdhury, SPD
AF Hugues, Kazeza Wingi
   Chowdhury, S. P. Daniel
GP IEEE
TI An African Solution for Water and Electricity Supply, Using a Standalone
   Photovoltaic Based Quasi Z Source Inverter
DE Adaptive Variable Step Size; Fuzzy Logic; Incremental Conductance
   Algorithm; Maximum Power Point Tracking; Quasi-Z-Source Inverter
AB Africa is the major world region in which populations are deeply affected by water and electricity supply shortages, in spite being blessed with the highest world water aquifer reserves as well as advantageous solar irradiance that encourages harvesting of electricity using photovoltaic cells. This paper deals with the design and performances analysis of a three phase Quasi Z Source Inverter (QZSI) to ensure efficient water and electricity supply while mitigating the effect of greenhouse gases, all this in an African context. The QZSI will simultaneously supply the motor pump set, extract the maximum power (MPP) from photovoltaic arrays as well as supply an auxiliary AC load under suitable predefined condition. The MPP will be tracked by an adaptive variable step size fuzzy logic based incremental conductance MPPT algorithm. The designed system has been developed and implemented in matlab Simulink. Results shows that with this single stage power converter, the system can at once drive a motor pump set when the water level in the storage tank is at the lower threshold and power up AC loads when the water tank is full. The effectiveness and robustness of the proposed method in increasing performances of the water pumping and three phase AC power generation has been validated, hence the system is susceptible allowing more people accessing to water and electricity supply services.
UT WOS:000387087500055
ER

PT J
AU Shahverdi, B
   Miller-Hooks, E
   Isaac, S
AF Shahverdi, Bahar
   Miller-Hooks, Elise
   Isaac, Shabtai
TI Decision support for prioritizing critical societal services in optimal
   post-disaster critical lifeline recovery
DE Disaster recovery; Restoration scheduling; Critical services; Civil
   lifelines; Community resilience
AB Critical societal services, such as health care, education, law enforcement, and emergency response, are key to societal well-being and safety. Disruption to these services may arise from direct damage to the buildings from which the services are provided, or indirectly as a consequence of damage to supporting lifelines. The order in which lifeline elements are restored post-disaster affects not only the timing for restoring the lifeline services to its customers, but also the timing for restoring critical services that rely on these lifelines. In this paper, a mathematical formulation of the problem of prioritizing critical societal services in lifeline service restoration treated by multiple, specialized crews and exact algorithmic approach for its solution are proposed. Two approaches to accelerate the solution algorithm for use in realistic settings, where efficiency and scalability are essential, are presented. The developed techniques can be embedded in a decision support tool for real-time application with real-time information. To illustrate the proposed modeling and solution methodology and assess its efficiency for large, complex multi-lifeline applications, numerical experiments were run on a synthetic yet real-world network involving three key lifelines, including power, water, and transportation, as well as two hospitals that rely on them. The analysis of this case study shows that cross-lifeline collaboration in prioritization and scheduling in restoration action affects not only the return of services from the individual lifelines, but also of critical services on which, particularly in disaster settings, lives may depend.
UT WOS:001259357200001
ER

PT J
AU Ugwu, IA
   Salarieh, B
   Salman, AM
   Petnga, L
   Williams, M
AF Ugwu, Izuchukwu A.
   Salarieh, Babak
   Salman, Abdullahi M.
   Petnga, Leonard
   Williams, Mil'Yonta
TI Postdisaster Recovery Planning for Interdependent Infrastructure Systems
   Prioritizing the Functionality of Healthcare Facilities
DE Infrastructure systems; Critical facilities; Healthcare facilities;
   Recovery; Earthquakes; Functionality metrics
ID INTEGRATED NETWORK DESIGN; EMERGENCY-DEPARTMENT; RESTORATION;
   RESILIENCE; MODEL
AB Critical facilities such as hospitals rely heavily on the functioning of complex infrastructure systems to perform efficiently. After a disaster, the functionality of these facilities is impaired because the infrastructure they rely on is impacted, and the facilities will recover as the supporting infrastructure is repaired. Infrastructure recovery planning often depends on political and economic interests, which are often conflicting and can result in a delayed or inefficient recovery. When priorities are set in the planning stages, actions can be more organized and directed, resulting in a more effective recovery, especially for critical facilities. However, existing infrastructure recovery planning approaches do not provide a systematic method for prioritizing the recovery of the functionality of critical facilities. This paper presents a framework for the postdisaster recovery planning of interdependent infrastructure systems, emphasizing the recovery of healthcare facilities. In the framework, the operation of the emergency departments of the healthcare facilities is modeled using discrete-event simulation, and a new functionality metric for the facilities is developed. The performance of the supporting infrastructure systems is quantified using a connectivity-based metric considering their interdependency using a hierarchical approach. A virtual city with healthcare facilities comprising three hospitals is used to demonstrate the proposed framework focusing on the road, power, and water infrastructure of the city. Two approaches are considered to plan the recovery of the infrastructure systems. In the first approach, recovery is planned without prioritizing any of the city's buildings or facilities. In the second approach, the hospital network is prioritized in the recovery planning. The virtual city is used to demonstrate the proposed framework considering an earthquake scenario.
UT WOS:000867888700016
ER

PT J
AU Saifaoui, D
   Nachtane, M
   Tarfaoui, M
   Rouway, M
   Aroussy, Y
AF Saifaoui, D.
   Nachtane, M.
   Tarfaoui, M.
   Rouway, M.
   Aroussy, Y.
TI Heat recovery from sulfuric acid plants for seawater desalination using
   RO and MED systems
DE Electricity-water cogeneration; Reverse osmosis; MED; Heat recovery
   system; Sulfuric acid; Hybrid RO-MED
ID COGENERATION; POWER
AB Conforming to the factor characteristics of electricity-water cogeneration power plants, an improved multieffect desalination (MED) and reverse osmosis (RO) are the most current techniques for seawater desalination. A principal change between these operations consists of their various energy requirements, thermal energy for MED and mechanical energy for RO plants. The main improvement ideas of RO and MED are the recovery of large quantities of heat produced during the production of sulfuric acid, which exhibits an exothermic reaction where a part of this heat will be used for the thermal power plant and subsequently reverse osmosis and another amount of heat recovery system will be used to desalinate seawater by the MED system. In this work, the sulfuric acid is used to recover heat energy; this energy is used in a hybrid system of RO-MED in order to desalinate the seawater. A thermodynamic steady-state study of this system is investigated to select the optimum cogeneration system. These improvements could make the benefits of cogeneration to the energy consumption of an RO and MED which will be remarkably reduced.
UT WOS:000522955500002
ER

PT J
AU Ma, JH
   Xiao, TY
   Liu, L
   Liu, C
AF Ma, Junhao
   Xiao, Tingyu
   Liu, Lang
   Liu, Chao
TI Comprehensive performance evaluation of a photovoltaic-thermal driven
   energy storage and co-production of electricity and water system
DE Thermo-osmosis; Photovoltaic-thermal system; Salinity gradient power;
   Water-electricity cogeneration; Water production cost
ID MEMBRANE DISTILLATION; SOLAR; DESALINATION
AB Thermo-osmosis represents an advanced pathway for low-grade heat recovery, yet its practical deployment is hindered by salt accumulation and inefficient utilization of concentrated brine. To overcome these limitations, this study develops a solar-driven integrated system that couples thermal osmosis with salinity gradient power generation and incorporates thermal energy storage, achieving simultaneous freshwater and electricity production under intermittent solar input. Subsystem feasibility was experimentally validated. Based on real-time solar irradiance data from representative coastal cities, system performance was evaluated under various operating conditions, accompanied by comprehensive thermodynamic and techno-economic analyses. Results indicate that during 12 h of summer daylight, system can produce 1065.27 kg of freshwater, and the integrated energy storage feature enables the system to operate for an additional 12 h after sunset. An optimal feed flow rate to the photovoltaic-thermal component was identified, maximizing both overall solar utilization efficiency and exergy efficiency. Notably, when the photovoltaic-thermal module area increases beyond its optimal value, the water production cost exhibits an increasing trend, and the system's investment payback period reaches 4.25 years. The proposed system demonstrates self-sustained, all-day production of freshwater and electricity, highlighting its promising application potential in regions facing water and energy scarcity.
UT WOS:001729795500001
ER

PT C
AU Nuti, C
   Rasulo, A
   Vanzi, I
AF Nuti, C.
   Rasulo, A.
   Vanzi, I.
BE Martorell, S
   Soares, CG
   Barnett, J
TI Seismic assessment of utility systems: Application to water, electric
   power and transportation networks
AB Utility systems are essential for assuring a high standard of life in developed countries. Water, electricity and roads are just some of the classical examples. Earthquakes can cause extensive and unforeseen damages to those infrastructures where the mutual dependence of structural and functional failures may give rise to domino-like effects, both within and between networks. In the paper, it will be shown that the problem of analyzing the seismic reliability of water, electric power and transportation networks can be treated following the same approach, essentially because the models governing the functioning of those three systems contain many-maybe most-identical parts. The very differences arise, of course, in the assessment of the fragility of components, and in the so-called flow equations, i.e. the mathematical description of the network capability to bring respectively the electric power/water/vehicles from one node to another node of the network. A complete computational procedure will be presented, able to carry on both scenario and probabilistic analysis (when the details of the future earthquakes are not known
UT WOS:000266027001101
ER

PT J
AU Zheng, Z
   Lin, ZY
   Zhai, CH
   Pan, XL
   Yang, F
AF Zheng, Zhi
   Lin, Zhongyao
   Zhai, Changhai
   Pan, Xiaolan
   Yang, Fan
TI A Bayesian Network-based system framework for seismic resilience
   assessment of nuclear power plants
DE Bayesian network; Seismic resilience; Nuclear power plant;
   Iso-resilience contour
ID VULNERABILITY; DEFINITIONS; SAFETY; RISK; INFRASTRUCTURES; PERFORMANCE;
   METRICS
AB This paper proposes a Bayesian network (BN)-based framework for assessing the seismic resilience and loss of nuclear power plant (NPP) systems. The study emphasizes the importance of considering both internal components and external infrastructures, such as power and water supply networks, in a system-of-systems approach. A multi-state damage model is adopted to evaluate functional states of facilities, non-structural components, and equipment under seismic loads. The paper introduces a novel overall resilience metric that integrates resistance, absorption, and recovery capabilities, providing a comprehensive evaluation of NPP performance. Through extensive parametric analysis, the effects of recovery periods, earthquake magnitudes, source-to-site distances, soil conditions, and loss of off-site power on resilience are investigated. Additionally, the concept of "iso-resilience contours" is first proposed to support rapid resilience prediction and site selection for NPPs. The results demonstrate the practicality of the BN framework in enhancing seismic resilience assessment and decisionmaking for nuclear facilities.
UT WOS:001706031300001
ER

PT J
AU Zhang, XJ
   Karady, GG
   Piratla, KR
   Ariaratnam, ST
AF Zhang, Xianjun
   Karady, George G.
   Piratla, Kalyan R.
   Ariaratnam, Samuel T.
TI Network Capacity Assessment of Combined Heat and Power-Based Distributed
   Generation in Urban Energy Infrastructures
DE Combined heat and power (CHP); distributed generation (DG); load flow
   analysis; mathematical programming
AB The growing penetration of distributed generation (DG) and use of combined heat and power (CHP) techniques have made electrical distribution systems and water distribution systems increasingly interdependent. This paper proposes an integrated dispatch model that offers a generalized means for determining the potential accommodated DG capacity along with appropriate DG sitting for given urban electricity and water system configurations. The AC optimal power flow (ACOPF)-based system model was developed for each phase of a modified electrical distribution test feeder. A corresponding water distribution system was then designed with its mathematical model developed. A mathematical model of the CHP-based DG system was also developed to couple the electricity and water systems. Results indicate the optimal DG capacity and its optimal sitting based on urban electricity and water infrastructures. The present water network cannot support the complete recovery of the exhaust heat. The mutual impacts on operational performances of CHP-based DG units and urban energy infrastructures were also investigated.
UT WOS:000328064100042
ER

PT J
AU Zhou, YL
   Guo, SL
   Liu, P
   Xu, CY
   Zhao, XF
AF Zhou, Yanlai
   Guo, Shenglian
   Liu, Pan
   Xu, Chong-yu
   Zhao, Xiaofeng
TI Derivation of water and power operating rules for multi-reservoirs
DE operating rule; genetic algorithm; progressive optimality algorithm;
   multi-reservoirs; aggregation-decomposition
ID PROGRAMMING-MODEL; JOINT OPERATION; OPTIMIZATION; SYSTEM; SIMULATION;
   VULNERABILITY; RELIABILITY
AB Water operating rules have been universally used to operate single reservoirs because of their practicability, but the efficiency of operating rules for multi-reservoir systems is unsatisfactory in practice. For better performance, the combination of water and power operating rules is proposed and developed in this paper. The framework of deriving operating rules for multi-reservoirs consists of three modules. First, a deterministic optimal operation module is used to determine the optimal reservoir storage strategies. Second, a fitting module is used to identify and estimate the operating rules using a multiple linear regression analysis (MLR) and artificial neural networks (ANN) approach. Last, a testing module is used to test the fitting operating rules with observed inflows. The Three Gorges and Qing River cascade reservoirs in the Changjiang River basin, China, are selected for a case study. It is shown that the combination of water and power operating rules can improve not only the assurance probability of output power, but also annual average hydropower generation when compared with designed operating rules. It is indicated that the characteristics of flood and non-flood seasons, as well as sample input (water or power), should be considered if the operating rules are developed for multi-reservoirs.
   [GRAPHICS]
UT WOS:000371253100009
ER

PT C
AU Li, JB
   Hao, PZ
   Pu, XG
AF Li Jianbing
   Hao Pinzheng
   Pu Xiaogang
BE Shang, HQ
   Luo, XX
TI Preliminary Study on Ecological Bank (Island) Protection and its Impact
   on Flood Discharge
DE Changsha junction; river center island; ecological revetment(island)
AB A coin has two sides, the same to building the Changsha junction. On one side, it is propitious for improving ship, generating electricity, water supply and water environment of Changsha City; on the other side, it will change the ecosystem balance, micro - climate, and bio - environment survival and reproduction of the original river channel. Based on the analysis technology characteristics of ecological restoration engineering at home and abroad, the preliminary idea was put forward about ecological restoration technology of bank and island, such as section shape, biology species, etc. And using physical model, it is studied about the relative impact between ecological restoration engineering and flood discharge. It has a reference for designing ecological bank (island) protection engineering and gets new dynamic balance of ecosystem in the Changsha reach of Xiangjiang River. The results provide research idea for protecting the health of the Xiangjiang River.
UT WOS:000277833800010
ER

PT C
AU Niedermaier, M
   Merli, D
   Sigl, G
AF Niedermaier, Matthias
   Merli, Dominik
   Sigl, Georg
BE Jozwiak, L
   Stojanovic, R
   Lutovac, B
   Jurisic, D
TI A Secure Dual-MCU Architecture for Robust Communication of IIoT Devices
DE security; robust; iiot; industrial control system
AB The Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) has already become a part of our everyday life be it water supply, smart grid, or production, IIoT is everywhere. For example, factory operators want to know the current state of the production line. These new demands for data acquisition in modern plants require industrial components to be able to communicate. Nowadays, network communication in Industrial Control Systems (ICSs) is often implemented via an IP-based protocol. This intercommunication also brings a larger attack surface for hackers. If an IIoT device is influenced by attackers, the physical process could be affected. For example, a high network load could cause a high Central Processing Unit (CPU) load and influence the reaction time on the physical control side. In this paper, we introduce a dual Microcontroller Unit (MCU) setup to ensure a resilient controlling for IIoT devices like Programmable Logic Controllers (PLCs). We introduce a possible solution for the demand of secure architectures in the IIoT. Moreover, we provide a Proof of Concept (PoC) implementation with a benchmark and a comparison with a standard PLC.
UT WOS:000492146100013
ER

PT J
AU Paredes, DS
   Rivera, EF
   Baldeón-Egas, P
   Toasa, RM
AF Paredes, Daniel S.
   Rivera, E. Fabian
   Baldeon-Egas, Paul
   Toasa, Renato M.
TI The Multiscale Assessment of Infrastructure Vulnerability to River
   Floods in Andean Areas: A Case Study of the Chibunga River in the Parish
   of San Luis, Ecuador
DE infrastructure vulnerability assessment; territorial planning; Andean
   regions; floods; Ecuador
AB This research evaluates the vulnerability of public infrastructure in San Luis parish, Riobamba canton, Ecuador, to the flood risk posed by the Chibunga River under return period scenarios of 10, 50, 100, and 500 years. The main objective was to identify the most exposed systems-such as drinking water, sewerage, power grid, and utility poles-in order to prioritize mitigation measures. The methodology combined hydrometeorological analysis, hydraulic modeling using HEC-HMS and Iber, and the estimation of economic losses through the DaLA methodology. The results reveal that the low vulnerability of the drinking water system, as less than 0.08% of the network's length, is at risk in the high-to-very-high range, even in a scenario with a 500-year return period. On the other hand, there is evidence of high exposure of the sewerage network in extreme scenarios, considering that 49.15% is at high-to-very-high risk in the worst-case scenario. Furthermore, as the return period increases, there is a growing impact on the electrical network, where the proportion of assets at high-to-very-high risk increases from 0.60% to 6.88% for high voltage, 0.00% to 18.03% for low voltage, and 0.00% to 1.18% for streetlights for a return period of 10 to 500 years. It should be noted that the estimated direct economic losses amount to USD 84,162.86 when taking into account the worst-case scenario. In this regard, the novelty of this study lies in the integration of technical, hydraulic, and economic analyses for a scarcely studied rural Andean area, providing crucial data for preventive risk management. It concludes that investment in prevention is more cost-effective than post-disaster reconstruction, recommending the strengthening of the sewerage system's hydraulic capacity and the optimization of electrical infrastructure protection.
UT WOS:001570060700001
ER

PT C
AU de Bruijn, KM
   Cumiskey, L
   Dhubhda, RN
   Hounjet, M
   Hynes, W
AF de Bruijn, Karin M.
   Cumiskey, Lydia
   Dhubhda, Roisin Ni
   Hounjet, Micheline
   Hynes, William
BE Lang, M
   Klijn, F
   Samuels, P
TI Flood vulnerability of critical infrastructure in Cork, Ireland
AB Recent flood events in Ireland and particularly in County Cork have caused significant disruption to health service provisions, interruption of water and power supplies, and damage to roads and other transportation infrastructure, affecting the lives of hundreds of thousands of people over a prolonged period of weeks. These events clearly reveal- the vulnerability of the critical infrastructure to flooding and the dependence of society on critical infrastructure. In order to reduce the flood vulnerability and increase the resilience of the critical infrastructure networks in the future, detailed evidence-based analysis and assessment is essential. To this end a case study has been carried out on Cork City which analyses this vulnerability as it was in 2009, and as it is currently, and identifies adaptation options to reduce the future vulnerability of critical infrastructure to flooding and to build a more resilient society. This paper describes the storyline approach and Circle tool and their application to Cork City which focused on the analysis of the flood vulnerability of critical infrastructure and the impacts of failure of the infrastructure for other critical functions and on society.
UT WOS:000392270100090
ER

PT J
AU FILIPPOV, GA
   SALTANOV, GA
   KUKUSHKIN, AN
   VASILCHENKO, EG
   CHEMPIK, E
   SHINDLER, K
AF FILIPPOV, GA
   SALTANOV, GA
   KUKUSHKIN, AN
   VASILCHENKO, EG
   CHEMPIK, E
   SHINDLER, K
TI INCREASING THE RELIABILITY AND EFFICIENCY OF STEAM-WATER POWER
   GENERATING PLANT BY ADDING SURFACE-ACTIVE SUBSTANCES
UT WOS:A1982QP48200006
ER

PT J
AU Kudo, D
   Furukawa, H
   Nakagawa, A
   Yamanouchi, S
   Koido, Y
   Matsumura, T
   Abe, Y
   Konishi, R
   Matoba, M
   Tominaga, T
   Kushimoto, S
AF Kudo, Daisuke
   Furukawa, Hajime
   Nakagawa, Atsuhiro
   Yamanouchi, Satoshi
   Koido, Yuichi
   Matsumura, Takashi
   Abe, Yoshiko
   Konishi, Ryota
   Matoba, Masaaki
   Tominaga, Teiji
   Kushimoto, Shigeki
TI Resources for Business Continuity in Disaster-Based Hospitals in the
   Great East Japan Earthquake: Survey of Miyagi Prefecture Disaster Base
   Hospitals and the Prefectural Disaster Medicine Headquarters
DE disaster medicine; the great East Japan earthquake; business continuity
   plan; disaster base hospital; preparedness
AB Objective To clarify advance measures for business continuity taken by disaster base hospitals involved in the Great East Japan Earthquake.
   Methods The predisaster situation regarding stockpiles was abstracted from a 2010 survey. Timing of electricity and water restoration and sufficiency of supplies to continue operations were investigated through materials from Miyagi Prefecture disaster medicine headquarters (prefectural medical headquarters) and disaster base hospitals (14 hospitals) in Miyagi Prefecture after the East Japan earthquake.
   Results The number of hospitals with less than 1 day of stockpiles in reserve before the disaster was 7 (50%) for electricity supplies, 8 (57.1%) for water, 6 (42.9%) for medical goods, and 6 (42.9%) for food. After the disaster, restoration of electricity and water did not occur until the second day or later at 8 of 13 (61.5%) hospitals, respectively. By the fourth postdisaster day, 14 hospitals had requested supplies from the prefectural medical headquarters: 9 (64.3%) for electricity supplies, 2 (14.3%) for water trucks, 9 (64.3%) for medical goods, and 6 (42.9%) for food.
   Conclusions The lack of supplies needed to continue operations in disaster base hospitals following the disaster clearly indicated that current business continuity plans require revision.
UT WOS:000328546700005
ER

PT J
AU de Sampaio, PAB
   Alves, LFR
   Moreira, MD
AF de Sampaio, Paulo Augusto Berquo
   Alves, Luiz Flavio Rodrigues
   Moreira, Maria de Lourdes
TI Electricity and water cogeneration using a small PWR of 75 MW(th)
   coupled to a DCMD desalination plant with heat recovery
DE Cogeneration; Small PWR; Direct contact membrane distillation (DCMD);
   Energy efficiency; Waste heat recovery
ID MEMBRANE DISTILLATION; MASS-TRANSFER
AB The use of a small PWR of 75 MW(th) coupled to a Direct Contact Membrane Distillation (DCMD) desalination plant with heat recovery, for cogeneration of electricity and water, is investigated here. Part of the heat used for desalination is waste heat from the power plant, as the desalination plant collects warm seawater from the power plant condenser instead of taking water directly from the sea. Two distinct coupling strategies are considered. In the first one, the additional heating required for the desalination process is obtained from steam extractions, taken at the low pressure turbine, after the extracted steam has already done a substantial amount of mechanical work. The second strategy is based on splitting the steam produced in the steam generator into two parallel Rankine cycles. The condenser at one of those cycles is set to operate just below atmospheric pressure in order to provide extra heating, at a higher temperature, for the desalination plant. Both strategies analysed in this work, relying on the use of waste heat and employing a DCMD desalination plant with efficient heat recovery, are shown to be competitive with other well established thermal desalination technologies currently used in nuclear cogeneration plants, such as MED and MSF.
UT WOS:001099745000001
ER

PT J
AU Mokhtari, H
   Sepahvand, M
   Fasihfar, A
AF Mokhtari, Hamid
   Sepahvand, Mehdi
   Fasihfar, Ahmad
TI Thermoeconomic and exergy analysis in using hybrid systems (GT plus MED
   plus RO) for desalination of brackish water in Persian Gulf
DE Hybrid systems; Exergy analysis; RO; Thermoeconomic; MED
ID MULTIOBJECTIVE OPTIMIZATION; ENVIRONMENTAL-ANALYSES; GENETIC ALGORITHM;
   POWER; PLANT; EVAPORATION
AB In this paper, a Gas Turbine + Multi Effect Desalination + Reverse Osmosis (GT + MED + RO) system is designed with respect to Siemens gas turbines, to provide water and electricity for Bashagerd County, located in the south of Iran (in the outskirts of Persian Gulf). There is 79.2 x 10(6) (kWh/year) and 103043 (m(3)/day) of electricity and water demand, respectively. Siemens GT model 400 (SGT400) is selected to provide electricity in the place. It is seen in MED system that there is a major difference between desalinated and required water. But, as we have high rates of flow in rejected water from MED condenser to the gulf, an RO system is used in rejected outflow of the MED system. By doing so, more fresh water is derived from the whole system. In this design, the recovery of RO system is 42 %, and final price 2.3 $ per cubic meter. By using GT + MED + RO hybrid system, not only the required electricity, but also enough fresh water can be produced for this County. The hybrid system had some added costs. And the final price is reduced from 2.8 to 2.3 $/m(3) by using the excess electricity to run the RO pump. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000386408400001
ER

PT J
AU Val, DV
   Holden, R
   Nodwell, S
AF Val, Dimitri V.
   Holden, Richard
   Nodwell, Sarah
TI Probabilistic analysis of interdependent infrastructures subjected to
   weather-related hazards
DE infrastructure systems; interdependency; community-scale; network flow
   model; failure; probabilistic analysis
ID NETWORK FLOW; SYSTEMS; VULNERABILITY; RESTORATION; EVENTS; MODELS
AB Simulation of the infrastructure performance using numerical models may significantly assist in developing strategies for improving its resilience to harmful effects of climate change. This paper presents a model for simulating the performance of interdependent infrastructure systems based on an extended network flow approach, i.e. infrastructure systems are considered as a network of nodes connected by directed edges. The model has been specifically developed to simulate the infrastructure performance at a community scale and has higher node resolution compared to typical models of infrastructure systems at the national level. The model is time-dependent so that the infrastructure performance can be assessed at discrete points over a period of time. Parameters describing the performance of infrastructure assets (e.g. production and flow capacities, demands) can be treated as random variables or probabilities can be assigned to failures of the assets. The application of the model is illustrated by the probabilistic assessment of the performance of two interdependent infrastructure systems - electrical power and water, damaged by flooding.
UT WOS:000337360100005
ER

PT J
AU Brink, SA
   Davidson, RA
   Tabucchi, THP
AF Brink, Susan A.
   Davidson, Rachel A.
   Tabucchi, Taronne H. P.
TI Strategies to reduce durations of post-earthquake water service
   interruptions in Los Angeles
DE water supply; earthquake; simulation; risk
AB A discrete event simulation model is used to evaluate the effectiveness of key post-earthquake water supply restoration strategies that the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power (LADWP) plans to use following a major earthquake. The strategies are: (1) maximising the groundwater pumped into the system, (2) connecting raw water emergency storage reservoirs, (3) rationing water use, and (4) all three. For each of five realistic earthquake scenarios the restoration with and without implementation of the key restoration strategies are compared. The results suggest that opening the reservoirs and rationing are effective post-earthquake restoration strategies that would help to minimise the water outages.
UT WOS:000302541600009
ER

PT J
AU Li, Y
   Zhang, MY
AF Li, Yang
   Zhang, Mingyuan
TI Cascading failure analysis of interdependent water-power networks based
   on functional coupling
DE Water supply network; Electric power network; Cascading failure;
   Functional coupling; Earthquake
ID CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE; VULNERABILITY; SIMULATION; PROPAGATION;
   RELIABILITY; RESILIENCE; SYSTEMS; IMPACT; MODEL
AB Due to the increasing interdependence and interconnection, the water supply network (WSN) and electric power network (EPN) face a higher risk of cascading failures. Existing studies mainly focus on the cascading failures of the single network but rarely on the interdependent water-power networks (IWPN) under earthquakes. Therefore, combined with the physical operation characteristics, this paper proposes a cascading failure analysis method for interdependent water-power networks based on functional coupling. First, we define the functional coupling relationships between the IWPN and establish a topology model of the IWPN. Subsequently, the joint probability and functional coupling strength are introduced to determine the failure probability of coupled components in the WSN and EPN. The initial failure components are determined by a random method. Then, the node load function and line capacity function are introduced as the judgment conditions of cascading failure of the WSN and EPN, respectively. The cascading failure transmission process of the WSN and EPN is further conducted based on the dynamical flow model. Further, a calculation method for the functional loss of the WSN and EPN is proposed. Finally, the proposed methodology is applied to the coupling WSN of a certain city and IEEE118 node network. The results show that cascading failures in the IWPN spread wider than a single network and cause more serious functional losses. The findings of this work would have important implications for formulating disaster prevention and mitigation measures and seismic performance improvement strategies for interdependent infrastructure networks.
UT WOS:001434966600001
ER

PT C
AU Kongshaug, B
   Chauhan, S
AF Kongshaug, Bjorn
   Chauhan, Shailesh
GP IEEE
TI HIGH INTEGRITY ELECTRICAL POWER SYSTEM OFFSHORE OIL & GAS FACILITY
DE High Integrity Electrical Power System; Offshore Platform; combined Fire
   Water and Sea Water system
AB The electrical power generation and distribution system for one of the Platform (Platform 'A') was designed different from earlier fixed drilling and production platforms in the North Sea. The main difference is that there is no dedicated emergency generator on board. Instead each of the three main generators has been upgraded to a standard normally associated with emergency sets. This provides higher reliability of the electrical supply system and enables essential consumers such as firewater pumps to be powered by electricity. The system known as the High Integrity Electrical Power System (HIEPS) was originally used at another platform in order to save diesel units for the combined Firewater/Seawater (FW/SW) pumps.
   The Platform 'A' design went one step further. The design used combined FW/SW pumps (to eliminate two diesel driven FW pumps) and also eliminated two diesel driven emergency generators.
   This paper discusses details of objectives leading to this design 25 years back and analysis based on the operator experience whether those objectives were met or not.
UT WOS:000426942300012
ER

PT J
AU Wang, YP
   Byers, E
   Parkinson, S
   Wanders, N
   Wada, Y
   Mao, JF
   Bielicki, JM
AF Wang, Yaoping
   Byers, Edward
   Parkinson, Simon
   Wanders, Niko
   Wada, Yoshihide
   Mao, Jiafu
   Bielicki, Jeffrey M.
TI Vulnerability of existing and planned coal-fired power plants in
   Developing Asia to changes in climate and water resources
ID ELECTRICITY-GENERATION; CARBON CAPTURE; REGIONAL WATER; CHINA; ENERGY;
   NEXUS; MULTIMODEL; SCENARIOS; IMPACTS; CONSTRAINTS
AB Coal power generation dominates electricity supply in Developing Asia, and more than 400 gigawatts (GW) of new coal-fired capacity is planned for operation by 2030. Past studies on thermal electricity-water nexus have not accounted for this new capacity, and use coarse spatial and temporal resolutions in the assessment of long-term power system reliability. Here, high-resolution hydro-climatic simulations and asset-level power plant water use models are integrated to quantify water constraints on coal-fired power plants in Developing Asia, for different scenarios of future climate change, cooling system choice, and capacity expansion. Future climate change and capacity expansion decrease the annual usable capacity factor (UF) of coal power generation in Mongolia, Southeast Asia, and parts of India and China. The negative impacts are lessened by widening the geographic areas of aggregation. Under near-term mitigation scenarios with high penetrations of CO2 capture technology, the regional average water withdrawal intensity of coal power generation is 50-80% higher than current conditions. With careful siting, the increased water withdrawal intensity does not necessarily constrain future electricity production on annual or monthly time scales, but decreases system reliability by increasing the probability of low UF at daily time scale. Our findings highlight the unaccounted-for-risk in Developing Asia's long-term power plan featuring coal power generation. Regional capacity expansion should consider the reliability of future thermal power assets under long-term hydroclimate change using high-resolution models and multiple scenarios.
UT WOS:000489897600017
ER

PT C
AU Paillisse, J
   Bergillos, S
   Madrenys, M
   Calle, E
AF Paillisse, Jordi
   Bergillos, Sergi
   Madrenys, Marti
   Calle, Eusebi
BE Fischer, M
   Rak, J
   Kassler, A
TI Supervised Machine Learning Techniques to Calculate the Robustness of
   Networks
DE Machine Learning; Robustness; Network
AB The robustness of a transport network (telecommunications, water, electricity, etc.) gives an indication of its resistance to various types of attack (targeted, random, cascading, etc.). This metric is usually calculated analytically, with the help of network simulators. However, this calculation is computationally expensive. In this paper, we propose accelerating this computation leveraging various Machine Learning techniques. We study five different techniques: linear regression, k-nearest neighbors, decision trees, random forest and a multilayer perceptron. We have built and evaluated the accuracy of these five models, using datasets of synthetic telecommunication networks from Topology Zoo, under different percentage of attacked nodes and attack algorithms. Our results show that we can predict the robustness of given a set of input graph metrics with a mean absolute percentage error of 2.36% for a random forest regressor. In addition, we analyze which metrics are more relevant when performing the prediction, and find that the percentage of attacked nodes is the most important.
UT WOS:001594531700014
ER

PT J
AU Hu, GX
   Yang, Z
   Han, JM
   Huang, L
   Gong, J
   Xiong, NX
AF Hu, Guoxiong
   Yang, Zhong
   Han, Jiaming
   Huang, Li
   Gong, Jun
   Xiong, Naixue
TI Aircraft detection in remote sensing images based on saliency and
   convolution neural network
DE Remote sensing image; Detection; Saliency; Convolution neural network
ID VISUAL-ATTENTION; OBJECT DETECTION; TARGET DETECTION; MODEL;
   RECOGNITION; CLOUD
AB New algorithms and architectures for the current industrial wireless sensor networks shall be explored to ensure the efficiency, robustness, and consistence in variable application environments which concern different issues, such as the smart grid, water supply, and gas monitoring. Object detection automatic in remote sensing images has always been a hot topic. Using the conventional deep convolution network based on region proposal for detection, there are many negative samples in the generated region proposal, which will affect the model detection precision and efficiency. Saliency uses the human visual attention mechanism to achieve the bottom-up object detection. Since replacing the selective search with saliency can greatly reduce the number of proposal areas, we will get some region of interests (RoIs) and their position information by using the saliency algorithm based on the background priori for the remote sensing image. And then, the position information is mapped to the feature vector of the whole image obtained by deep convolution neural network. Finally, the each RoI will be classified and fine-tuned bounding box. In this paper, our model is compared with Fast-RCNN that is the current state-of-the-art detection model. The mAP of our model reaches 99%, which is 12.4% higher than that of Fast-RCNN. In addition, we also study the effect of different iterations on model and find the model of 10,000 iterations already has a higher accuracy. Finally, we compare the results of different number of negative samples and find the detection accuracy is highest when the number of negative samples reaches 400.
UT WOS:000423796000002
ER

PT J
AU Zhou, F
   Lu, ZS
   Yu, B
   Li, BJ
AF Zhou, Fang
   Lu, Zhisen
   Yu, Bo
   Li, Bingjun
TI Assessment of urban critical infrastructure resilience: integrating
   uncertainty failures and cascading failures
DE Urban resilience; Critical infrastructure; Aleatory uncertainty;
   Cascading failure
ID MODELING INTERDEPENDENT INFRASTRUCTURES; RISK; VULNERABILITY;
   RELIABILITY; NETWORKS; TRADEOFF; WEIGHT; SYSTEM
AB City depends on critical infrastructure systems such as electricity, water and gas that provide essential urban services. Whether it is a weather disaster or a sudden security incident, such uncertain events can disrupt these critical infrastructures and thus disrupt social services. There is still a gap in research on the resilience of urban critical infrastructure networks under uncertainty failure. This study proposes a methodology to explore the cascading failure of urban critical infrastructure networks under the influence of uncertainty failure, and makes a resilience evaluation based on node failure models and cascading failure simulations. Usually, the impact of uncertainty failure is related to the distance to the centre point of failure, but the centre point of uncertainty failure is random, so the impact caused by uncertainty failure is uncertain. The cascading failure also has uncertainty when it occurs, so the cascading failure under uncertainty failure cannot be quantitatively analyzed in previous studies. In this study, Monte Carlo simulation is applied to quantify the double uncertainty through statistical analysis, and in this way, a brand new model is constructed, which is used to comprehensively evaluate the resilience of urban critical infrastructures under uncertainty failure.
UT WOS:001639785800001
ER

PT C
AU Thompson, JR
   Frezza, D
   Necioglu, B
   Cohen, M
   Hoffman, K
   Rosfjord, K
AF Thompson, James R.
   Frezza, Damon
   Necioglu, Burhan
   Cohen, Michael
   Hoffman, Kenneth
   Rosfjord, Kristine
GP IEEE
TI An Agent-based Model for the Evidence-Based Long Term Planning of Power
   and Water Critical Infrastructures
AB The comfort, mobility, and economic well-being of the U.S. population depends on reliable and affordable electric power services. Sustainable water supplies are required for operating conventional power plants and long-term planning across these sectors is not well coordinated. It is increasingly important to analyze the security, sustainability, and resilience of mid-and long-term electric utility and water system capacity expansion plans in an integrated fashion with respect to potential challenges posed by climate change and other risks to this critical infrastructure. We develop an agent-based model (ABM) of a typical regional power system that incorporates the features of specific plant types and their cooling systems that are dependent on abundant water supplies at appropriate temperatures and quantities to support full power operation. The effects of potential water restrictions and constraints to power plant cooling systems (cooling towers, cooling ponds, and once-through condensers) are analyzed to estimate the potential impact of climate change or water temperature restrictions on a particular long-term expansion plan.
UT WOS:000403403400088
ER

PT J
AU Lin, YJ
   Hu, YH
   Chen, GQ
   Li, KR
   Li, YG
   Zhang, QH
   Hou, CY
   Wang, HZ
AF Lin, Yujie
   Hu, Yunhao
   Chen, Guoqing
   Li, Kerui
   Li, Yaogang
   Zhang, Qinghong
   Hou, Chengyi
   Wang, Hongzhi
TI Evaporation-Driven Fabric for Synergistic Water-Electricity-Lithium
   Co-Production
DE evaporation-driven fabric; hydrovoltaic effect; lithium extraction;
   water evaporation
ID POWER-GENERATION; EXTRACTION
AB Water evaporation constitutes a ubiquitous physical phenomenon. This natural process enables efficient energy and resource harvesting through water interacting with materials with tailored structural, chemical, and thermal properties. Here, this work designs an evaporation-driven fabric (e-fabric) that enables the utilization of water-electricity-lithium from brine through three optimized functional layers. Interfacial charge asymmetry between the carbon black (CB) photothermal layer and Al2O3 thermal insulation layer drives directional ion transport, generating sustained hydrovoltaic output with approximate to 7.7 mu A cm-2 current density. Under 1 kW m-2 sun irradiation, e-fabric demonstrates 1.42 kg m-2 h-1 evaporation rate in brine while the Al2O3 layer reduces thermal dissipation. The middle protonated lithium titanate (HTO) adsorption layer selectively captures Li+ which achieves an adsorption capacity of 40.87 mg m-2 during a 2-h adsorption cycle while maintaining 93.2% recovery efficiency over 8 cycles. The decoupled operation of the adsorption process from the evaporation power generation system effectively prevents ion accumulation from affecting performance. This work can provide an approach for evaporation-driven water-electricity-lithium co-production systems.
UT WOS:001562325000001
ER

PT J
AU Basaran, ST
   Gökçekus, H
   Orhon, D
   Sözen, S
AF Basaran, Senem Teksoy
   Gokcekus, Huseyin
   Orhon, Derin
   Sozen, Seval
TI Autonomous desalination for improving resilience and sustainability of
   water management in North Cyprus
DE Autonomous desalination; Renewable energy; Water management; Solar
   energy; Photovoltaics (PV); North Cyprus
ID REVERSE-OSMOSIS DESALINATION; SEAWATER; DESIGN
AB The study explored the potential of creating an alternative water resource through autonomous desalination of seawater and/or brackish water based on available renewable energy sources. The evaluation was carried out for different levels of water demand in remote rural areas and tourism activities where water scarcity and lack of electricity infrastructure coincides with availability of renewable energy sources. Abundance of solar power (up to 2,100 W/m(2)) in North Cyprus makes autonomous desalination based on photovoltaic (PV) power an attractive and sustainable alternative resource for water supply: 1 MW PV powered reverse osmosis desalination plant in North Cyprus is estimated to produce 1.15 million m(3)/year and 0.32 million m(3)/year of freshwater from brackish water and seawater, respectively. This suggests that PV-run autonomous desalination process implemented at different sites with varying capacities could supply the total municipal water demand using a total PV panel area of only 0.25 km(2) for brackish water and 0.70 km(2) for seawater. Hence an integrated water management plan should consider PV-run desalination systems along with the current applications in order to improve the resilience and sustainability of its water resources potential.
UT WOS:000544993600029
ER

PT J
AU Mendoza-Cano, O
   Jesús, LD
   Ian, P
   Ma, MP
   Manuel, URJ
   Edwards, RM
   Ivan, RLC
   Pedro, RA
   Jorge, VC
AF Mendoza-Cano, Oliver
   Jesus, Lopez-de la Cruz
   Ian, Pattison
   Ma, Martinez-Preciado
   Juan Manuel, Uribe-Ramos
   Edwards, R. M.
   Cesar Ivan, Ramirez-Lomeli
   Pedro, Rincon-Avalos
   Jorge A, Velazco-Cruz
TI Disaster Risk Resilience in Colima-Villa de Alvarez, Mexico: Application
   of the Resilience Index to Flash Flooding Events
DE flooding; risk perception; resilience; Likert
ID SOCIAL VULNERABILITY; URBAN RESILIENCE; PRONE AREAS; PERCEPTION;
   MANAGEMENT; EXPOSURE; DAMAGE
AB Resilience is an indicator of the ability of systems to withstand disruption within acceptable degradation parameters and also their recovery time. It is essential for public policies to understand how the population reacts to a particular risk. In this paper we have performed a study that quantitatively measures perceptions of flooding and resilience to flooding in the city of Colima-Villa de Alvarez, Mexico 2018-2019. A resilience index has been applied to ten zones of the city. In our research we assessed risk perception through a city-wide survey with questions based on a Likert scale. An analysis was performed on public knowledge of the existing security protocols for floods and evaluated the public perception of the availability of critical services, such as fresh water, electricity, food, drainage, communications and public transport during a flash flood events. This research has identified populated low resilience zones that can be considered as priorities for resource and effort to mitigate floods and their impacts. The novel resilience index developed in this work can also be applied to other type of risk that humans face and used as a basis for discussions about urban resilience.
UT WOS:000473750500062
ER

PT J
AU Stover, RL
   Ameglio, A
   Khan, PAK
AF Stover, RL
   Ameglio, A
   Khan, PAK
TI The Ghalilah SWRO plant: an overview of the solutions adopted to
   minimize energy consumption
DE energy recovery; seawater reverse osmosis; SWRO; pressure exchanger
AB The Federal Electricity and Water Authorities (FEWA) SWRO plant in Ghalilah, United Arab Emirates began operation in February 2005. Among the SWRO plants that use advanced energy recovery technology, this plant is the largest SWRO installation in the Arabian Gulf producing three MIGD (13,650 cubic meters) of potable water per day. The Ghalilah plant, designed and built by Fisia Italimpianti, employs ERI Pressure Exchanger technology to save energy and reduce power consumption. The authors describe the challenges and solutions associated with the design, commissioning and operation of the plant, particularly those aspects associated with energy efficiency and energy recovery. Actual performance is compared to predicted performance under various operating conditions.
UT WOS:000233488800023
ER

PT J
AU Zheng, XZ
   Wang, C
   Cai, WJ
   Kummu, M
   Varis, O
AF Zheng, Xinzhu
   Wang, Can
   Cai, Wenjia
   Kummu, Matti
   Varis, Olli
TI The vulnerability of thermoelectric power generation to water scarcity
   in China: Current status and future scenarios for power planning and
   climate change
DE Vulnerability; Power generation; Water scarcity; Climate change
ID ENERGY-PRODUCTION; IMPACTS; TEMPERATURES; STRESS; THIRST
AB Although China has experienced a wide variety of regional conflicts between water scarcity and electricity generation, there are few comprehensive quantifications that explicitly reveal the location and severity of these conflicts. Triggered by the soaring need for such information, we performed a high-resolution evaluation and projection of the spatial vulnerability of thermoelectric power generation to water scarcity problems. The study provides a comprehensive assessment by incorporating thermoelectric plants' reliance on water, local water supply stress and future impacts brought about by planning and climate change into the analysis simultaneously. To measure the vulnerability of thermoelectric plants to water scarcity, a vulnerability index was constructed and multi-disciplinary approaches were integrated to quantify this index. Seven hotpots in North China were highlighted as power-vulnerable to water scarcity currently. In order to fulfill the power generation target in the future, less-vulnerable watersheds identified by this study are suggested to become the sites of future power plants. Besides, lowering the water withdrawal intensity of power plants alone is not enough to solve the vulnerability concerns. Instead, it is necessary to implement other water management, including water rights allocation in the trans boundary river basins. This paper also highlights regions where climate change will threaten power generation by decreasing the water availability. These insights are valuable for adding the alleviation of water and electricity conflicts to climate change adaptation agenda. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000375515500038
ER

PT J
AU Rafat, E
   Babaelahi, M
   Arabkoohsar, A
AF Rafat, E.
   Babaelahi, M.
   Arabkoohsar, A.
TI Design and analysis of a hybrid solar power plant for co-production of
   electricity and water: a case study in Iran
DE Solar thermal power plant; Multi-effect desalination; Co-production;
   Thermodynamic analysis
ID MULTIOBJECTIVE OPTIMIZATION; POLYGENERATION PROCESS; DESALINATION
   PLANTS; RENEWABLE ENERGY; TEMPERATURE HEAT; SYSTEM; HYDROGEN
AB The pace of implementing solar thermal power plants is increasing all around the world. In many cases, solar plants are installed in arid areas with severe demand for potable water despite the large availability of seawater. Thus, the solar thermal power plant is combined with a thermal desalination unit for the cogeneration of electricity and sweat water. Iran is a country with a very strong potential for solar projects, and of course, under an intense crisis of water. Shiraz plant is one of the solar thermal power plants in operation in Iran. The plant has recently gone under an expansion project to be combined with a gas-fired boiler, aiming to double its capacity yet smoothening its power output. This study investigates the feasibility of the co-production of electricity-water in this case study based on a number of innovative methods in conventional and modified configurations. All the proposed scenarios are designed, thermodynamically modeled, and analyzed. The different configurations are compared in terms of energy efficiency and production rate. The results indicate that the combined cycle with heat supply through the condenser of the power block, as well as the heat recovery unit allocated for the gas boiler, outperforms all the other possible configurations. In this case, the average efficiency is 10.76%, and a daily freshwater production as high as 852.32 Tonne per day is possible for a 500 kW power plant.
UT WOS:000604833700003
ER

PT J
AU Alhazmi, M
   Dehghanian, P
   Nazemi, M
   Wang, F
   Alfadda, A
AF Alhazmi, Mohannad
   Dehghanian, Payman
   Nazemi, Mostafa
   Wang, Fei
   Alfadda, Abdullah
TI Optimal Operation of Integrated Water-Power Systems Under Contingencies
DE Contingency analysis; dc optimal power flow (DCOPF); emergency response;
   interdependent networks; water and power systems (WaPS); water-energy
   nexus (WEN)
ID ECONOMIC-DISPATCH; ENERGY NEXUS; SUPPLY-SIDE; MANAGEMENT; FOOD
AB With the sharply growing complexity and rapid deployment of smart technologies in our modern society, risk-aware management and coordination in day-to-day operation of the interlinked critical infrastructures is urgently needed. In particular, the interconnected water and power systems (WaPS) are in need of joint and cooperative operation to maximize the economic benefits during normal operating conditions and resilience services during emergencies. While contingency analysis is used to assist the system operators in gaining knowledge of the system's static security, such understanding is more challenging to achieve in the case of integrated WaPS. This article proposes a novel optimization model for under-emergency operation of the integrated WaPS, considering contingencies in both networks. In order to ensure the delivery of water demand, the proposed formulation considers the hydraulic constraints of the water networks, which is naturally a nonlinear model. The proposed nonlinear model is approximated using a piece-wise linearization approach to convert the optimization model into a mixed-integer linear programming formulation. The proposed analytics are applied to a modified IEEE 24-bus reliability test system that is jointly operated with two and three commercial-scale water networks. The proposed model is evaluated using various disaster severity levels (i.e., N - k contingency scenarios) and verify the promising performance of the proposed integrated WaPS model when facing failures and threatening high impact low probability emergencies.
UT WOS:000838527800016
ER

PT J
AU Campana, PE
   Quan, SJ
   Robbio, FI
   Lundblad, A
   Zhang, Y
   Ma, T
   Karlssona, B
   Yan, JY
AF Campana, Pietro Elia
   Quan, Steven Jige
   Robbio, Federico Ignacio
   Lundblad, Anders
   Zhang, Yang
   Ma, Tao
   Karlssona, Bjorn
   Yan, Jinyue
TI Optimization of a residential district with special consideration on
   energy and water reliability
DE Optimization; Genetic algorithm; Renewable energy; Hybrid power systems;
   Water harvesting; Residential urban districts
ID PARTICLE SWARM OPTIMIZATION; DIESEL-BATTERY SYSTEM; MULTIOBJECTIVE
   OPTIMIZATION; HYBRID; GA; FEASIBILITY; PV
AB Many cities around the world have reached a critical situation when it comes to energy and water supply, threatening the urban sustainable development. From an engineering and architecture perspective it is mandatory to design cities taking into account energy and water issues to achieve high living and sustainability standards. The aim of this paper is to develop an optimization model for the planning of residential urban districts with special consideration of renewables and water harvesting integration. The optimization model is multi-objective which uses a genetic algorithm to minimize the system life cycle costs, and maximize renewables and water harvesting reliability through dynamic simulations. The developed model can be used for spatial optimization design of new urban districts. It can also be employed for analyzing the performances of existing urban districts under an energy-water-economic viewpoint.
   The optimization results show that the reliability of the hybrid renewables based power system can vary between 40 and 95% depending on the scenarios considered regarding the built environment area and on the cases concerning the overall electric load. The levelized cost of electricity vary between 0.096 and 0.212 $/kW h. The maximum water harvesting system reliability vary between 30% and 100% depending on the built environment area distribution. For reliabilities below 20% the levelized cost of water is kept below 1 $/m(3) making competitive with the network water tariff. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000399623600069
ER

PT C
AU Alhazmi, M
   Dehghanian, P
   Nazemi, M
   Wang, F
   Alfadda, A
AF Alhazmi, Mohannad
   Dehghanian, Payman
   Nazemi, Mostafa
   Wang, Fei
   Alfadda, Abdullah
GP IEEE
TI Coordination Framework for Integrated Operation of Water-Power Systems
   under Contingencies
DE Water-energy nexus (WEN); water and power systems (WaPS); emergency
   response; contingency analysis; interdependent networks; optimal power
   flow (OPF)
ID ENERGY; NEXUS; MARIA; FOOD
AB With the sharply-growing complexity and rapid deployment of smart technologies in our modern society, there is an urgent call for risk-aware management and coordination in day-to-day operation of the interlinked critical infrastructures. In particular, the interconnected Water and Power Systems (WaPS) stands out, urgently in need of joint and cooperative operation to maximize the economic benefits during normal operating conditions and resilience services during emergencies. The interdependency of WaPS is crucial for emergency response to High Impact Low Probability (HILP) incidents, the frequency and intensity of which have been recently on the rise. While contingency analysis is used to assist the system operators in gaining knowledge of the system's static security, such understanding is more challenging to achieve in the case of integrated WaPS. This paper proposes a novel optimization model for under-emergency operation of the integrated WaPS, considering contingencies in both networks. In order to ensure the delivery of water demand, the proposed formulation considers the hydraulic constraints of the water networks, which is naturally a nonlinear model. The proposed nonlinear model is approximated using a piece-wise linearization approach to convert the optimization model into a mixed-integer linear programming (MILP) formulation. The proposed analysis is applied to a modified IEEE 24-bus reliability test system that is jointly operated with two commercial-scale water networks. The proposed model is evaluated using various disaster severity levels, revealing significant resilience benefits.
UT WOS:000821959500114
ER

PT J
AU Wang, RL
   Li, LZ
   Lin, WJ
   Wang, ED
   Yuan, JF
AF Wang, Renlong
   Li, Lingzhi
   Lin, Wenjie
   Wang, Endong
   Yuan, Jingfeng
TI Mastering the complexity: An enhanced cellular automata-based framework
   for simulating resilience of hospital Power-Water-Firefighting-Space
   nexus system
DE Hospital; Power-Water-Firefighting-Space (PWFS); system; Resilience
   assessment; Cellular automata; Interdependency; COVID-19
AB Modeling the resilience of hospital Power-Water-Firefighting-Space (PWFS) nexus systems is a complex, dynamic, and nonlinear challenge characterized by high uncertainty. Existing methods, mainly agent-based and network-based models, face difficulties in balancing detailed component-level behaviors with broader system-level interdependencies and neglect the impact of external disruptions, such as surges in service demand during the COVID-19 pandemic, on hospital PWFS system resilience. To address this, the study proposes an enhanced cellular automata (CA)-based framework for simulating hospital PWFS system resilience. The PWFS system is modeled as a seven-tuple CA, incorporating cell structure, state, space, neighborhood, transition rules, and time, facilitating the integration of micro-level component behavior with macro-level interdependencies. A set of resilience metrics, including robustness, rapidity, performance loss, and an integrated resilience index, are introduced, based on the system performance curve, which includes normality, connectivity, resource transfer efficiency, and space functionality. The model enables scalable, polynomial-time simulations of cascading failures, resource redistribution, and spatial-temporal recovery across interconnected PWFS subsystems. A real-world outpatient building case study demonstrates the applicability and validity of the enhanced CA model. The findings emphasize the importance of modeling intra-system interdependencies and provide actionable insights for infrastructure design and emergency preparedness. Overall, the enhanced CA framework offers a systematic, scalable, and computationally efficient approach to resilience assessment, bridging theoretical modeling with practical infrastructure planning.
UT WOS:001540105000001
ER

PT J
AU Chen, C
   Zhang, XD
   Wang, SG
   Zhang, HY
AF Chen, Chen
   Zhang, Xiaodong
   Wang, Shuguang
   Zhang, Huayong
TI Regional-scale water-energy nexus management by a mixed
   Possibilistic-Flexible robust nonlinear programming model
DE Water-energy nexus; Fuzzy uncertainty; Robustness; Nonlinear; Mixed
   integer; Optimization
ID NETWORK DESIGN; FUZZY; OPTIMIZATION; SYSTEM; ELECTRICITY; MITIGATION
AB With the severe shortages and increasing demands of water and energy resources, water and energy system analysis and management have attracted more and more attentions recently. In this study, a nonlinear mixed Possibilistic-Flexible Robust Water-Energy nexus model, named PFRWE, is developed for supporting integrated planning of water and energy nexus at a regional-scale. The developed PFRWE model has improved upon the existing methods for water-energy nexus through incorporation of fuzzy flexible programming, fuzzy possibilistic programming, robust programming and mixed integer nonlinear programming into a general framework. Robustness of the model and solution processes will be improved, including optimality robustness and feasibility robustness, based on the preferences of decision makers. Application of the PFRWE model to a real-world case study in Liaoning province, China has tested its applicability in regional water-energy nexus system management. Optimal decisions on the amounts of water production and electricity generation, new power and water plants construction, the types of new power and water plants, amounts of water consumption for electricity generation, amounts of electricity consumption for water production, and amounts of imported electricity are obtained. Tradeoffs between robustness and water production, electricity generation, imported electricity and expected total system profit are analyzed. By comparing the solutions of the PFRWE model and the deterministic model, it is found that the PFRWE model has advantages in maintaining feasibility and reducing variations of objective value under higher robustness or optimizing objective value under lower robustness.
UT WOS:000706313000038
ER

PT C
AU Tanaka, S
   Kawata, Y
   Shinozuka, M
   Schiff, A
AF Tanaka, S
   Kawata, Y
   Shinozuka, M
   Schiff, A
BE Shiraishi, N
   Shinozuka, M
   Wen, YK
TI Lifeline seismic performance of electric power systems during the
   Northridge earthquake
AB The seismic performance of an electric power system is evaluated under the Northridge earthquake. Utilizing GIS, numerical analysis is carried out on the electric power transmission network of Los Angeles Department of Water and Power with Monte Carlo technique. The simulation result shows a good agreement with the post-earthquake restoration process.
UT WOS:000078605500218
ER

PT C
AU Parise, G
   Martirano, L
   Parise, L
AF Parise, G.
   Martirano, L.
   Parise, L.
GP IEEE
TI Electric Infrastructures Equalized to Strategic for Disaster Recovery in
   Emergencies
DE Resilience of Electric Systems; Business Continuity; Disaster Recovery;
   High Resistance Grounding
AB Disaster events highlight as a vulnerable electric service continuity generally characterize peripheral and rural areas (PERAs) with a low concentration of facilities and buildings. A sustainable solution appears to qualify at least a building located in the vulnerable area so that it has be equalized to strategic structures (BESS) with the task of being an hub of collection and first reception during the emergency for the community hit by a disaster. They have to play the role of resilient structures offering after a catastrophic event the critical services as electricity, water, etc. This paper highlights the need of organizing a disaster recovery plan (DRP) for each vulnerable area that constitutes a special building as hub resilient to a disruptive event and the procedures to mitigate the damages after the event. The plan has to identify a portion of the grid with strategic activities for the territory defined disaster recovery grid (DRG) powered by BESS after the disaster.
UT WOS:000450163701153
ER

PT J
AU Bideris-Davos, AA
   Vovos, PN
AF Bideris-Davos, Admitos A.
   Vovos, Panagis N.
TI Comprehensive Review for Energy Recovery Technologies Used in Water
   Distribution Systems Considering Their Performance, Technical
   Challenges, and Economic Viability
DE water distribution systems; energy recovery turbines; pressure
   regulation; hydropower potential; energy efficiency; cost models
ID HYDRO POWER-PLANTS; DISTRIBUTION NETWORKS; TURBINE; PUMPS; COST; MODEL;
   DESIGN; PIPE; FEASIBILITY; GENERATION
AB Urban water distribution systems (WDSs) exhibit significant energy potential that is currently dissipated in the form of excess pressure, either at brake-pressure tanks (BPTs) or pressure reduction valves (PRVs). Recent research focuses on the implementation of energy harvesting methods within WDSs in order to improve the energy efficiency of such systems. This paper provides a systematic review of the technologies developed for energy exploitation in WDSs, covering both their technical and economic aspects, while considering their reliability in providing water pressure regulation. Drawn from the existing literature and state of the art, a systematic analysis was carried out that specifies and categorizes the most essential parameters that impact the implementation of energy recovery turbines into WDSs. Different turbine types, design parameters, and performance properties, such as generation efficiency and pressure regulation precision, were considered. Finally, practical challenges and consequences emerging from the joint optimization of water and power systems are addressed.
UT WOS:001286941200001
ER

PT J
AU Bieber, N
   Ker, JH
   Wang, XN
   Triantafyllidis, C
   van Dam, KH
   Koppelaar, RHEM
   Shah, N
AF Bieber, Niclas
   Ker, Jen Ho
   Wang, Xiaonan
   Triantafyllidis, Charalampos
   van Dam, Koen H.
   Koppelaar, Rembrandt H. E. M.
   Shah, Nilay
TI Sustainable planning of the energy-water-food nexus using decision
   making tools
DE Integrated modelling; Energy-water-food nexus; Demand and supply; Energy
   deployment policies; Resource technology network optimization; Climate
   change
ID LIFE-CYCLE ASSESSMENT; SYSTEMS; OPTIMIZATION; CHALLENGES; POLICIES;
   CLIMATE; DESIGN; REGION; MARKET
AB Developing countries struggle to implement suitable electric power and water services, failing to match infrastructure with urban expansion. Integrated modelling of urban water and power systems would facilitate the investment and planning processes, but there is a crucial gap to be filled with regards to extending models to incorporate the food supply in developing contexts. In this paper, a holistic methodology and platform to support the resilient and sustainable planning at city region level for multiple sectors was developed for applications in urban energy systems (UES) and the energy-water-food nexus, combining agent-based modelling - to simulate and forecast resource demands on spatial and temporal scales - with resource network optimization, which incorporates capital expenditures, operational costs, environmental impacts and the opportunity cost of food production foregone (OPF). Via a scenario based approach, innovative water supply and energy deployment policies are presented, which address the provision of clean energy for every citizen and demonstrate the potential effects of climate change. The results highlighted the vulnerability of Ghanas power generation infrastructure and the need for diversification. Feed-in tariffs and investment into supporting infrastructure and agriculture intensification will effectively increase the share of renewable energy and reduce carbon emissions.
UT WOS:000423009500055
ER

PT J
AU Wang, YH
   Wang, BS
   Pan, B
   Chen, QY
   Yan, W
AF Wang Yun-Hai
   Wang Bai-Shi
   Pan Bin
   Chen Qing-Yun
   Yan Wei
TI Electricity production from a bio-electrochemical cell for silver
   recovery in alkaline media
DE Microbial fuel cell; Silver recovery; Electricity production; Bipolar
   membrane; Ammonia chelated silver
ID MICROBIAL FUEL-CELLS; POWER-GENERATION; PERFORMANCE; MFC
AB The recovery of silver from ammonia chelated silver alkaline waste water, COD removal from acetate waste water and electricity production in a dual chamber bio-electrochemical cell was investigated. The results indicated that pure silver could be deposited on cathode with over 99.9% silver ions removed from the catholyte while over 83% COD could be removed from anolyte simultaneously. As a result, the maximum electricity of 3.2 J and 160 C charges could be produced and 1.6 g Ag could be recovered on the cathode when 1 g COD was removed from the anolyte in the bio-electrochemical cell. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000329377800145
ER

PT J
AU Husnil, YA
   Harvianto, GR
   Andika, R
   Chaniago, YD
   Lee, M
AF Husnil, Yuli Amalia
   Harvianto, Gregorius Rionugroho
   Andika, Riezqa
   Chaniago, Yus Donald
   Lee, Moonyong
TI Conceptual designs of integrated process for simultaneous production of
   potable water, electricity, and salt
DE Conceptual design; Electricity; Integrated process; Pressure-retarded
   osmosis; Reverse osmosis; Salt
ID PRESSURE-RETARDED OSMOSIS; REVERSE-OSMOSIS; ENERGY RECOVERY;
   POWER-GENERATION; RO-PRO; DESALINATION; SEA; TEMPERATURE; TECHNOLOGY;
   SYSTEM
AB The main aim of this study was to conduct preliminary analysis on the performance of two conceptual designs that integrate the production of potable water, electricity, and salt. We used reverse osmosis (RO), pressure-retarded osmosis (PRO), and electrodialysis (ED) to produce potable water, electricity, and salt, respectively. The objective of the analysis is to observe how the relative positions of RO and PRO in the integrated process affect the five key parameters, i.e. the total dissolved solids (TDS) of potable water, permeate rate, the total energy requirement of the RO and ED units, net delivered power, and salt potential. We simulated each integrated design using previously validated mathematical expressions of RO, PRO, and ED. We found that the net delivered power is higher When the RO unit is located before the PRO unit. The same sequence also results in lower energy requirement for producing potable water, although the permeate rate is smaller than that of the rival sequence. On the other hand, the salt potential is not affected by the relative positions of the RO and PRO units. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000395228000008
ER

PT J
AU Liu, SB
   Shi, SY
   Cui, HL
   Zhao, X
AF Liu, Shibo
   Shi, Shiyi
   Cui, Hailong
   Zhao, Xia
TI Energy-water management for sustainable development: Low-carbon
   coordinated scheduling of wastewater treatment plants, power and water
   distribution networks via Nash bargaining
DE PV-integrated wastewater treatment plants; Low-carbon operation;
   Water-energy nexus; Coordinated scheduling
AB As the global community accelerates zero-carbon transitions toward 2030, decarbonizing energy-intensive wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) operating within the water-energy nexus has become an urgent imperative. Integrating renewable energy and flexible resource recovery into WWTPs has therefore emerged as a promising pathway to reduce operating costs and carbon emissions. While existing literature optimizes WWTPs integrated with photovoltaics (PV), scheduling studies on utilizing CO2 hydrogenation for methanol synthesis to enhance circular resource recovery and support denitrification remain scarce. Furthermore, coordinated scheduling models for WWTPs, power distribution networks (PDNs), and water distribution networks (WDNs) often overlook autonomous decision-making, rely on oversimplified WWTP constraints, and lack cross-sector pricing mechanisms to mitigate the WDN's cost burden for reclaimed water. To address these gaps, this paper proposes a day-ahead scheduling model for a PV-integrated WWTP, incorporating CO2 hydrogenation for methanol synthesis to support biological nitrogen removal and drive sustainable low-carbon operations. Based on water-energy coupling, an asymmetric Nash bargaining model is established to facilitate tripartite cooperation among the WWTP, PDN, and WDN, introducing an electricity-water ratio-based bargaining power calculation to ensure equitable benefit allocation. Simulations on a 60,000 m3/d WWTP, an IEEE 33-node PDN, and a 12-node WDN demonstrate that on-site methanol synthesis reduces accounted operational carbon emissions and enhances PV self-consumption. Concurrently, tripartite scheduling substantially lowers total operational costs and optimizes reclaimed water pricing.
UT WOS:001810483200001
ER

PT J
AU He, WF
   Zhu, WP
   Han, D
   Huang, L
   Wu, YK
   Zhang, XK
AF He, W. F.
   Zhu, W. P.
   Han, D.
   Huang, L.
   Wu, Y. K.
   Zhang, X. K.
TI Performance simulation of a power-water combined plant driven by low
   grade waste heat
DE Power-water combined plant; Low grade waste heat; organic Rankine cycle;
   Humidification dehumidification; Gained output ratio
ID ORGANIC RANKINE-CYCLE; THERMODYNAMIC ANALYSIS; ORC; SYSTEM;
   OPTIMIZATION; RECOVERY; DESIGN
AB Both power and freshwater are obligatory for life and industry production. The present paper suggested a novel power-water combined plant (PWCP) driven by low grade waste heat to supply power and water simultaneously, in which the organic Rankine cycle (ORC) and air-heated humidification dehumidification (HDH) desalination subsystem are coupled. Through the connection effect of the condenser for the ORC power subsystem, mathematical models of the combined plant are presented. The relevant performance of the combined plant at the designed conditions is simulated iteratively, and the influences from the condensing temperature and pinch temperature difference (PTD) are investigated. The simulated results show that the peak value of the output power arrives at W-net = 14.90 kW when the evaporation temperature of R123 is T-1 = 401.15 K. Based on the conditions at the maximum power case of the ORC, the maximum freshwater production reaches m(fw) = 381.66 kg h(-1) at the balance condition of the dehumidifier, HCRd =1 at m(SW) = 2.9 kg s(-1). Accordingly, the peak value of the gained output ratio (GOR), GOR = 1.93, also indicates the best energy utilization situation within the HDH desalination system at HCRd = 1. After the regulation of the condensing temperature as well as pinch temperature difference of the ORC subsystem, a peak value of power for the ORC system, M-net= 16.56 kW at T-3 = 338.15 K, and maximum value of the freshwater production, mfw = 381.66 kg h(-1) at T-3 = 343.15 K are obtained. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000403624400010
ER

PT J
AU Ghasemiasl, R
   Abhari, MK
   Javadi, MA
   Ghomashi, H
AF Ghasemiasl, Ramin
   Abhari, Mani Khalili
   Javadi, Mohammad Amin
   Ghomashi, Hossein
TI 4E investigating of a combined power plant and converting it to a
   multigeneration system to reduce environmental pollutant production and
   sustainable development
DE Energy; Exergy; Environmental impacts; Exergoeconomic; Multigeneration
   system; Hydrogen
ID WASTE HEAT-RECOVERY; COMBINED-CYCLE; MULTIOBJECTIVE OPTIMIZATION;
   PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT; PEM ELECTROLYZER; GAS-TURBINE; EXERGOECONOMIC
   EVALUATION; ABSORPTION-REFRIGERATION; HYDROGEN-PRODUCTION; DESALINATION
   UNIT
AB In this study, Abadan CCPP in Iran was studied 4E, and to improve performance and reduce the environmental impact economically, a multigeneration system to convert the power plant to it has been proposed. The multigeneration system has been investigated in two modes of using the SPT in dual pressure HRSG and its use in preheating the inlet gas to the combustion chamber of the GT. In the ORC for different TIT, two operating fluids are evaluated to compare performance and their effect on hydrogen production. The results show that the multigeneration system (a) and the selection of R141b as the operating fluid of the ORC is the most cost-effective system for generating electricity and water but has the highest pollution generation. The multigeneration system (b) and the selection of R600 as the operating fluid of the ORC is the most environmentally friendly system with the lowest emissions and the highest hydrogen production but has the lowest amount of electricity generation and the highest cost of producing fresh water and electricity. The multigeneration system in mode (b) and by selecting fluid R141b as the operating fluid of the ORC is the best option. The proposed system has an exergy efficiency of 49.64% and an energy efficiency of 57.36%. Also, by reducing 9.8% of pollutants, this system has reduced the production of 27,400 tons of pollutants into the atmosphere per year, and by reducing fuel consumption, it has saved $ 8.7 million in annual power plant fuel costs.
UT WOS:000696977300004
ER

PT J
AU Liu, JM
   Wang, XH
   Wang, ZW
   Lu, YQ
   Li, XF
   Ren, YP
AF Liu, Jinmeng
   Wang, Xinhua
   Wang, Zhiwei
   Lu, Yuqin
   Li, Xiufen
   Ren, Yueping
TI Integrating microbial fuel cells with anaerobic acidification and
   forward osmosis membrane for enhancing bio-electricity and water
   recovery from low-strength wastewater
DE Microbial fuel cell; Forward osmosis membrane; Anaerobic acidification;
   Bio-electricity production; Wastewater treatment
ID AIR-CATHODE; COMMUNITY STRUCTURE; ENERGY RECOVERY; BIOREACTOR OMBR;
   GENERATION; PERFORMANCE; FLUX; DESALINATION; MECHANISMS; REMOVAL
AB Microbial fuel cells (MFCs) and forward osmosis (FO) are two emerging technologies with great potential for energy-efficient wastewater treatment. In this study, anaerobic acidification and FO membrane were simultaneously integrated into an air-cathode MFC (AAFO-MFC) for enhancing bio-electricity and water recovery from low-strength wastewater. During a long-term operation of approximately 40 days, the AAFO-MFC system achieved a continuous and relatively stable power generation, and the maximum power density reached 4.38 W/m(3). The higher bio-electricity production in the AAFO-MFC system was mainly due to the accumulation of ethanol resulted from anaerobic acidification process and the rejection of FO membrane. In addition, a proper salinity environment in the system controlled by the addition of MF membrane enhanced the electricity production. Furthermore, the AAFO-MFC system produced a high quality effluent, with the removal rates of organic matters and total phosphorus of more than 97%. However, the nitrogen removal was limited for the lower rejection of FO membrane. The combined biofouling and inorganic fouling were responsible for the lower water flux of FO membrane, and the Desulfuromonas sp. utilized the ethanol for bio-electricity production was observed in the anode. These results substantially improve the prospects for simultaneous wastewater treatment and energy recovery, and further studies are needed to optimize the system integration and operating parameters. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000394200800008
ER

PT J
AU Guikema, SD
   Goffelt, JP
AF Guikema, Seth D.
   Goffelt, Jeremy P.
TI A flexible count data regression model for risk analysis
DE Conway-Maxwell Poisson distribution; count data; generalized linear
   model
ID WATER DISTRIBUTION-SYSTEMS; BREAK FAILURE PATTERNS; POISSON;
   PROBABILITY; METHODOLOGY
AB In many cases, risk and reliability analyses involve estimating the probabilities of discrete events such as hardware failures and occurrences of disease or death. There is often additional information in the form of explanatory variables that can be used to help estimate the likelihood of different numbers of events in the future through the use of an appropriate regression model, such as a generalized linear model. However, existing generalized linear models (GLM) are limited in their ability to handle the types of variance structures often encountered in using count data in risk and reliability analysis. In particular, standard models cannot handle both underdispersed data (variance less than the mean) and overdispersed data (variance greater than the mean) in a single coherent modeling framework. This article presents a new GLM based on a reformulation of the Conway-Maxwell Poisson (COM) distribution that is useful for both underdispersed and overdispersed count data and demonstrates this model by applying it to the assessment of electric power system reliability. The results show that the proposed COM GLM can provide as good of fits to data as the commonly used existing models for overdispered data sets while outperforming these commonly used models for underdispersed data sets.
UT WOS:000253637700017
ER

PT J
AU François, H
   Samacoïts, R
   Bird, DN
   Köberl, J
   Prettenthaler, F
   Morin, S
AF Francois, Hugues
   Samacoits, Raphaelle
   Bird, David Neil
   Koberl, Judith
   Prettenthaler, Franz
   Morin, Samuel
TI Climate change exacerbates snow-water-energy challenges for European ski
   tourism
ID WINTER TOURISM; ALPS; SNOWMAKING; RELIABILITY; DATABASE; RESORTS
AB Ski tourism is a substantial component of the economy of mountainous regions in Europe and is highly vulnerable to snow scarcity, which is increasing due to climate change. However, the climate change snow supply risk to ski tourism has not been quantified in a consistent way throughout Europe, including the influence and environmental footprint of snowmaking. Here we show that the snow supply risk to ski tourism increases with global warming level, heterogeneously within and across mountain areas and countries. Without snowmaking, 53% and 98% of the 2,234 ski resorts studied in 28 European countries are projected to be at very high risk for snow supply under global warming of 2 degrees C and 4 degrees C, respectively. By contrast, assuming a snowmaking fractional coverage of 50% leads to corresponding proportions of 27% and 71%, but with increasing water and electricity demand (and related carbon footprint) of snowmaking. While it represents a modest fraction of the overall carbon footprint of ski tourism, snowmaking is an inherent part of the ski tourism industry and epitomizes some of the key challenges at the nexus between climate change adaptation, mitigation and sustainable development in the mountains, with their high social-ecological vulnerability.
UT WOS:001188286200001
ER

PT J
AU Najafi, J
   Eliades, DG
   Panteli, M
AF Najafi, Javad
   Eliades, Demetris G.
   Panteli, Mathaios
TI Emergency Coordination of Water Pumps and Pump-as-Turbine Units for
   Resilient Water-Power Systems
DE Modeling; Pumps; Water; Loading; Water pumps; Resilience; Energy;
   Measurement units; Timing; Indexes; Coordinated systems; power networks;
   pump-as-turbine; resilience; water networks
AB Leveraging alternative energy sources and load flexibility in interconnected infrastructures can enhance the recovery of power distribution networks (PDNs) during low-probability, high-impact events. This study proposes an emergency coordination framework between PDNs and water distribution networks (WDNs) that co-optimizes water pumps as flexible loads and pumps-as-turbines (PATs), as distributed energy sources through strategic pressure management. The framework consists of three steps: 1) PDN shares the restoration start time and emergency duration with WDN; 2) WDN schedules pumps and PATs by solving two pressure-minimizing hydraulic optimization subproblems and reports the resulting power profiles to the PDN; 3) PDN solves a mixed integer linear programming to maximize prioritized load restoration using the provided information, microgrids formation, and tie-line operation, and then signals whether to implement the WDN schedule. Case studies on the IEEE 33-bus PDN integrated with the NET3 WDN demonstrate the framework's effectiveness. Across scenarios with varying line outages and emergency durations, coordinated operation increases average restored active loads from 33.31% (without coordination) to 39.58% (with coordination), and to 40.03% when a PAT supplies 10.60 kW on average. Correspondingly, WDN pressure satisfaction adjusts from 100% to 96.77% and 94.76%, highlighting the importance of explicit resilience tradeoff analysis.
UT WOS:001850209600001
ER

PT C
AU Gao, XJ
   Wang, B
AF Gao, Xiangjie
   Wang, Bo
GP IEEE
TI Multi-objective capacity optimization configuration of island microgrid
   based on ocean thermal water and electricity co-generation system
DE multi-energy complementary; water and electricity co-generation;
   multi-objective optimization; levelized cost of electricity; loss of
   power supply probability
AB In response to the actual demand of Weizhou island, this paper proposes a new multi-energy complementary water and electricity co-generation system consisting of wind farm, photovoltaic power plant, parabolic trough type concentrating heat collection power plant, heat storage tank and electric heater combined with ocean thermal energy and its scheduling strategy. The optimal capacity configuration of each component of the system is obtained by the Multiple Objective Particle Swarm Optimization algorithm (MOPSO) with the objective of minimizing the levelized cost of electricity (LCOE) and the loss of power supply probability (LPSP); and comparing the system in this paper with the system without energy storage and the battery system; Finally, the typical daily output characteristics of the system under the optimal capacity configuration are analyzed. The results of the case study show that the optimal capacity con-figuration of the system is 7409.20 kW for wind power, 4769.49 kW for PV, 152,284.63 m(2) for solar thermal, and 19.10 h for thermal storage units. Under the same wind power, photovoltaic and solar thermal capacity, the performance of the system in this paper is better than the system without storage and battery system, and the system with thermal storage device still has better economy and reliability.
UT WOS:001479763900113
ER

PT J
AU Tsiourtis, NX
AF Tsiourtis, NX
TI Seawater desalination projects. The Cyprus experience
DE BOOT; water shortage; climatic change; water scarcity; water supply
   reliability; environmental impacts; desalination; contract
AB Cyprus an island with a semi-arid climate, and with its water resources already intensely utilized is suffering from structural and temporary water shortages. With a high level of utilization of its natural water resources, water demand increasing rapidly and water availability decreasing due to repeated droughts, the Government of Cyprus has decided to construct a number of desalination plants. The target capacity of these plants is 120,000 m(3)/d or 40.0 MCM per year and the objective is to increase water availability and the level of reliability for domestic water supply systems. During the last ten years the available of water from the Government projects and from other sources was very limited which led to supply cuts up to 30% of normal demand in the domestic sector and up to 70% of the normal demand in the agricultural sector. These have serious adverse effects on the social and economic activities and a negative impact on the environment. Tbe first desalination plant is under operation since April 1997, with a nominal daily output of 40,000 m(3), where the second desalination plant with a nominal daily output of 51,667m(3), is expected to be put into operation in March 2001. Further one plant proposed by the Electricity Authority of Cyprus is under consideration by the Government where two other plants are at the stage of Siting and Environmental studies. The first and second plants use the reverse osmosis process with a recovery of 50% and electric energy from the electric power grid. They both use an open sea intake and the water is undergoing a pretreatment for reducing the Silt Density Index and the pH for the protection of the membranes. The desalinated water is post-treated for achieving an acceptable quality complying with the Cyprus and European drinking water quality standards. The Build, Own, Operate and Transfer principle (BOOT) was chosen as the method of project financing on a ten-year basis. For the new plants, now under considerations, options will be given to the tenderers for any process or a combination of the known processes and economic incentives will be given to the tenderers offering low energy consumption processes and for those using renewable energy sources. Brine is discharged to the sea at a depth of at least 15m and at a distance of at least one kin from the shore. The sea environment around the brine disposal point is monitored, on a continuous basis and the results so far are at acceptable levels. In all cases environmental impact assessment studies were carried out before construction and mitigation measures were imposed on the contractors for minimizing adverse environmental effects. This paper will outline the approach, the tender document contents, the tender evaluation procedure, the project construction, the project operation and contract management, the environmental effects and the costs of water. It will also outline the benefits and adverse effects of the desalination plant in operation.
UT WOS:000171190200015
ER

PT J
AU Szinai, JK
   Deshmukh, R
   Kammen, DM
   Jones, AD
AF Szinai, Julia K.
   Deshmukh, Ranjit
   Kammen, Daniel M.
   Jones, Andrew D.
TI Evaluating cross-sectoral impacts of climate change and adaptations on
   the energy-water nexus: a framework and California case study
DE energy-water nexus; climate change adaptation; electricity systems;
   water systems; California
ID GREENHOUSE-GAS EMISSIONS; ELECTRICITY DEMAND; HYDROPOWER GENERATION;
   POTENTIAL IMPACTS; RESOURCES; SYSTEMS; MANAGEMENT; IRRIGATION;
   MULTIMODEL; HYDROLOGY
AB Electricity and water systems are inextricably linked through water demands for energy generation, and through energy demands for using, moving, and treating water and wastewater. Climate change may stress these interdependencies, together referred to as the energy-water nexus, by reducing water availability for hydropower generation and by increasing irrigation and electricity demand for groundwater pumping, among other feedbacks. Further, many climate adaptation measures to augment water supplies-such as water recycling and desalination-are energy-intensive. However, water and electricity system climate vulnerabilities and adaptations are often studied in isolation, without considering how multiple interactive risks may compound. This paper reviews the fragmented literature and develops a generalized framework for understanding these implications of climate change on the energy-water nexus. We apply this framework in a case study to quantify end-century direct climate impacts on California's water and electricity resources and estimate the magnitude of the indirect cross-sectoral feedback of electricity demand from various water adaptation strategies. Our results show that increased space cooling demand and decreased hydropower generation are the most significant direct climate change impacts on California's electricity sector by end-century. In California's water sector, climate change impacts directly on surface water availability exceed demand changes, but have considerable uncertainty, both in direction and magnitude. Additionally, we find that the energy demands of water sector climate adaptations could significantly affect California's future electricity system needs. If the worst-case water shortage occurs under climate change, water-conserving adaptation measures can provide large energy savings co-benefits, but other energy-intensive water adaptations may double the direct impacts of climate change on the state's electricity resource requirement. These results highlight the value of coordinated adaptation planning between the energy and water sectors to achieve mutually beneficial solutions for climate resilience.
UT WOS:000599484400001
ER

PT J
AU Herrera, M
   Giudicianni, C
   Sasidharan, M
   Wright, R
   Creaco, E
   Parlikad, AK
AF Herrera, Manuel
   Giudicianni, Carlo
   Sasidharan, Manu
   Wright, Robert
   Creaco, Enrico
   Parlikad, Ajith Kumar
TI Landmark-node based reliability assessment for critical infrastructure
   networks
DE Reliability; Infrastructure systems; Asset management; Network analysis;
   Water networks
ID WATER DISTRIBUTION NETWORKS; MIN-CUT; RESILIENCE; SYSTEM; EFFICIENCY;
   ALGORITHM; LINK
AB Assessing the reliability of critical infrastructure networks, such as urban systems essential for city functions like electricity and water, is key for robust operation and risk management. Traditional methods for reliability estimation, such as minimal cut-sets and path enumeration, often become computationally infeasible for large-scale, complex networks due to the need to evaluate all possible node-to-node paths. This paper introduces a novel approach based on landmark nodes-critical nodes essential for maintaining network connectivity-to estimate reliability more efficiently. Instead of analysing all paths between nodes, the method focuses on those connecting regular nodes to landmark nodes, significantly reducing the number of paths considered and improving computational efficiency. The network is first decomposed using a graph clustering algorithm, producing internally dense subgraphs. Reliability is then evaluated through intra-subgraph and intersubgraph paths. A bipartite network model is also employed to represent inter-cluster structure, accounting for failures in both nodes and links. This supports a multi-scale reliability analysis across local areas and the full network. The methodology is validated using benchmark power distribution networks to ensure reproducibility. To demonstrate practical relevance, it is also applied to a real-world case study involving the water distribution system of Pavia, Italy. This application highlights how key urban areas and components can be efficiently identified to prioritise maintenance and guide resource allocation, contributing to more resilient and sustainable infrastructure management.
UT WOS:001572012200004
ER

PT J
AU Ramli, MRM
   Takriff, MS
   Mohammad, AW
AF Ramli, Mohamad Razif Mohd
   Takriff, Mohd Sobri
   Mohammad, Abdul Wahab
TI Desalination brine as a resource: Emerging opportunities in valuable
   minerals recovery via membrane distillation
DE Membrane distillation; Desalination brine; Resource recovery;
   Valorization; Fouling
ID REVERSE-OSMOSIS; IN-SITU; WATER; EFFICIENCY; SYSTEM; ANTISCALANTS;
   FEASIBILITY; CRYSTALLIZATION; OPTIMIZATION; CONCENTRATE
AB Desalination plays an increasingly important role in addressing global water scarcity. However, it generates large volumes of hypersaline brine that pose serious environmental concerns. Rather than being viewed solely as waste, desalination brine is increasingly recognized as a valuable resource stream for recovering strategic elements such as lithium (Li), magnesium (Mg), and rare earth elements (REEs), supporting circular economy objectives. Membrane distillation (MD) represents strategic technology for brine valorization due to its high tolerance to salinity, strong solute rejection, and compatibility with low-grade or renewable heat sources. Despite these advantages, the industrial-scale deployment of MD remains fundamentally constrained by persistent fouling, wetting, and scaling phenomena that undermine process stability and economic viability. This review uniquely addresses these barriers by examining the convergence of strategic brine volarization, advance fouling mitigation, and digital technologies. Current mitigation strategies are discussed, including membrane surface modification, optimized feed pretreatment, and source control. Furthermore, the authors highlight the essential role of digital tools, predictive modeling, and artificial intelligence (AI) in supporting proactive, adaptive fouling control within the Industry 5.0 framework. Future perspectives focus on pilot-scale demonstration, improving membrane durability, and optimizing system design to fully unlock the potential of MD in brine valorization, particularly in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region, where integration with the Dubai Electricity and Water Authority (DEWA) and the Sharjah Electricity and Water Authority (SEWA) could utilize waste heat for mineral recovery.
UT WOS:001788835700001
ER

PT J
AU Zhang, WP
   Maleki, A
AF Zhang, Weiping
   Maleki, Akbar
TI Modeling and optimization of a stand-alone desalination plant powered by
   solar/wind energies based on back-up systems using a hybrid algorithm
DE Stand-alone hybrid renewable energy systems; Reverse osmosis
   desalination; Solar; wind energy; Back-up system; Hybrid optimization
   algorithm
ID REVERSE-OSMOSIS DESALINATION; SEARCH ALGORITHM; OPTIMAL-DESIGN; PV
   ENERGY; WIND; BATTERY; STORAGE; DRIVEN; DISPATCH
AB An autonomous reverse osmosis desalination plant powered by photovoltaic, wind turbines, diesel generators, and energy storage systems is considered as one of the effective ways to solve the difficulty of supplying potable water and electricity demands in remote areas. Nevertheless, modeling and achieving optimal size from an economic, environmental, and reliability point of view is necessary. In this study, four stand-alone hybrid desalination plants driven by renewable energy and back-up systems are designed and modeled to solve the difficulty of supplying potable water and electricity demands in remote areas. The hybrid structure consists of photovoltaic, wind turbines, diesel generators, and energy storage systems, which is optimized based on the minimum total cost and damage to the environment and suitable reliability. The optimization problem is solved by the hybrid optimization method based on two meta-heuristic methods. To ensure the superiority of the proposed optimization method, the obtained results are compared with two well-known algorithms. To verify the model, Davarzan Town, located in Iran, is selected as a case study. The effects of reliability indexes on optimal sizing of different hybrid systems are compared in detail. The results reveal that the suggested optimization method achieves the best system design. Also, it is seen that the stand-alone desalination plant powered by solar/ battery storage/diesel generator structure in different unreliability index is cheaper and cleaner than the other proposed systems.(c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000814760000008
ER

PT J
AU Omidvar, B
   Malekshah, MH
   Omidvar, H
AF Omidvar, Babak
   Malekshah, Mohammad Hojjati
   Omidvar, Hamed
TI Failure risk assessment of interdependent infrastructures against
   earthquake, a Petri net approach: case study-power and water
   distribution networks
DE Critical infrastructures interaction; Petri net; Markov chain; Water
   network; Power network; Network analysis; Tehran
ID INPUT-OUTPUT MODEL
AB Metropolitan areas consist of complicated systems of interconnected infrastructures that are highly interdependent. Disruption of one infrastructure may induce disruption in other interconnected ones. The results from analysis of one infrastructure as an independent system are not realistic without considering the behavior of other interconnected infrastructures. Consequently, the study of the interdependencies among critical infrastructures is important for addressing the cascading effects of a failed infrastructure on the entire network to properly model its performance and help the disaster management team in decision making. In this study, the extended Petri net and Markov chain have been used to demonstrate the power and water infrastructure interdependency with a case study of one of the municipal districts of metropolitan Tehran, the capital of Iran. In this research, three cases have been assessed quantitatively: (1) the intra-dependency effects of different components in each network, (2) the interdependency effects between the considered critical infrastructures and (3) the behavior of the water network considering intra- and interdependency, when the power network fails. The analyses show that considering the mentioned interdependencies has a major influence on their performance simulations and assessment of their exact vulnerability. It is concluded that the failure probability of the water network that is dependent on the failed power network is 1.66 of the independent water network in the studied region. Eventually, the results of the research could be used in design, restoration and disaster management planning for safety assessment of critical infrastructures.
UT WOS:000332025200037
ER

PT J
AU Correia, VHL
   de Abreu, RP
   Carvalho, M
AF Lobo Correia, Victor Hugo
   de Abreu, Renata Portela
   Carvalho, Monica
TI Robustness within the optimal economic polygeneration system for a dairy
   industry
DE Milk processing; Mixed-integer linear programming; Optimization; Energy
   system
ID ENERGY; OPTIMIZATION; LIFE
AB This study synthesizes and optimizes a polygeneration system for a dairy industry located in Northeast Brazil. Based on the energy demands (steam, hot water, electricity, and chilled water), a superstructure was built to represent all the possible processes and connections of the energy supply system, using commercially available equipment and locally available energy sources. The optimization model is based on mixed-integer linear programming and its objective function is to minimize the total annual costs. The solution of the optimization problem determines the optimal combination between pieces of equipment, connections, and energy resources within the superstructure. A reference system is established, which does not include the possibilities of cogeneration nor biomass. The annual cost of the reference system is R$ 2,780,550/year. When the optimization model is freely solved, the optimal economic system yields an annual cost of R$ 2,074,793/year (25% lower). This reduction is reached by using diesel and natural gas cogeneration modules to substitute electricity from the grid at peak hours. Only 10% of the cogenerated heat is employed within the system (due to low thermal energy demands), and the remainder is evacuated by a cooling tower, Sensitivity analyses were carried out to assess the system behavior under variations of energy demands, fuel costs, and capital recovery factor, and the optimal economic solution presented good performance under fuel price variations, demonstrating robustness in most scenarios.
UT WOS:000688466800007
ER

PT J
AU Hu, JC
   Huang, JC
   Chen, YX
   Xu, LN
   Wu, BQ
   Yue, HT
   Ji, HQ
   Li, HT
   Jin, J
AF Hu, Jiacheng
   Huang, Jiangchao
   Chen, Yaxian
   Xu, Linan
   Wu, Bingquan
   Yue, Haotian
   Ji, Houqiang
   Li, Haitao
   Jin, Jian
TI Achieving efficient water-electricity ensemble via using easily
   obtainable hydrovoltaic-thermoelectric hybrid generators
DE Water-electricity cogeneration; Thermoelectricity; Hydrovoltaic power;
   Solar-driven evaporation
ID ENERGY
AB The solar-driven water-electricity cogeneration system (WECS) has emerged as a promising strategy to simultaneously address the global challenges of water scarcity and sustainable energy production. Despite its dramatic potential, current WECS technologies face issues related to complex processes and limited energy output, which hinder their practical application. In this study, we present an efficient WECS utilizing a spray-constructed carbon black/polyvinylidene fluoride loaded bamboo fiber paper (CB/PVDF@BFP) hybrid integrated with double-stacked thermoelectric generators (TEGs). The CB/PVDF@BFP composite features a Janus structure with hydrophobic and hydrophilic sides, facilitating efficient water evaporation and hydrovoltaic electricity generation. Under one sun irradiation, the composite achieves an evaporation rate of similar to 1.41 kg center dot m(-2)center dot h(-1) with similar to 90 % photothermal efficiency and up to similar to 99.8 % decontamination efficiency for efficient water purification. Notably, our designed hybrid power generation module can reach up to similar to 1600.44 mW/m(2) under 1 sun, similar to 3-fold and similar to 4000-fold exceeding the previous only thermoelectric- and hydrovoltaic- based devices, respectively. This hybrid approach demonstrates enhanced energy recovery and utilization of solar energy, offering a promising solution to the water and energy crises through a single WECS.
UT WOS:001368196200001
ER

PT C
AU Keyvan, B
   Rahim, KS
AF Keyvan, Bahlouli
   Rahim, Khoshbakhti Saray
BE Aloui, F
   Dincer, I
TI Thermoeconomic Multi-objective Optimization of an Ammonia-Water
   Power/Cooling Cycle Coupled with a HCCI Engine
ID WASTE HEAT-RECOVERY; MODULAR HELIUM REACTOR; EXERGOENVIRONMENTAL
   ANALYSES; THERMODYNAMIC PROPERTIES; EXERGOECONOMIC ANALYSIS; POWER;
   EXERGY; ENERGY; SYSTEM
UT WOS:000577960000065
ER

PT J
AU Gupta, HS
AF Gupta, Himadri Sen
TI Optimizing k-Removal AUC for Urban Infrastructure Networks
DE Buildings; Robustness; Optimization; Measurement; Trees (botanical);
   Planning; Monte Carlo methods; Certification; Urban areas; STEM; Area
   under curve (AUC); critical infrastructure; graph algorithms; greedy
   algorithms; k-removal curve; Monte Carlo tree search; multi-layer
   networks; network robustness; resilience planning
ID RESILIENCE ASSESSMENT; VULNERABILITY; MITIGATION; SYSTEM; FRAMEWORK;
   CASCADE; MODELS; TIME
AB This paper presents a single-city case study (Seaside, Oregon) that ranks cross-layer infrastructure nodes (transport, power, and water) by directly optimizing early service-loss AUC. Rather than use proxy centralities, we optimize the evaluation metric directly: the normalized area under the k -removal curve (AUC) on a fixed grid ( alpha is an element of{0.10,0.20,0.30} ). A two-stage, CPU-only pipeline plans a short prefix with Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS; shortlist M , rollouts, iterations fixed for fairness) and completes the order with a Cost-Effective Lazy Forward (CELF) lazy-greedy tail using exact bitset coverage. On Seaside ( N=1176 infrastructure nodes; B=4679 buildings), our method attains AUC approximate to 0.714 at alpha=0.20 , outperforming Degree (0.231), PageRank (0.239), k -core (0.263), Collective Influence (CI) (0.223), approximate Betweenness (0.247; sampling budget), and an attachment-count heuristic (0.528). Robustness evidence alpha -sensitivity ( 0.10/0.20/0.30 ), dependency-rule variants (single vs. multi-attachment; AND/OR), demand weights, attachment jitter, and missing buildings show that the observed advantages are not an artifact of a single modeling choice. We also report a fair-compute comparison using wall-clock time and method-specific budgets. For k is an element of{5,10} , we certify small- k optima via exact MILP (SciPy milp) and report optimality gaps and solver statuses. Overall, this single-city case study suggests that directly optimizing the k -removal AUC yields a simple, CPU-only, auditable ranking that aligns with building-level service loss; establishing external validity will require multi-city assessment.
UT WOS:001666956500027
ER

PT C
AU Kaneshiro, J
   Kintzer, F
   Piek, ML
   Yoshimura, R
   Van Horsen, D
   Korbin, G
   Lovelie, K
   Carfrae, J
   McManus, R
   Ovalle, C
AF Kaneshiro, J.
   Kintzer, F.
   Piek, M. L.
   Yoshimura, R.
   Van Horsen, D.
   Korbin, G.
   Lovelie, K.
   Carfrae, J.
   McManus, R.
   Ovalle, C.
BE Bartak, J
   Hrdina, I
   Romancov, G
   Zlamal, J
TI Reliability assessment, repair, and replacement of historic water
   tunnels and their contribution to California's sustainability
AB From the largest private and public water and power supply utility companies in the world to the smaller municipal water and power agencies and irrigation districts to the oldest water district in California, operations and maintenance of water tunnels has been an important factor and vital link in California's infrastructure. Michael O'Shaughnessy (San Francisco Hetch Hetchy Water Supply System), William Mulholland (Los Angeles Department of Water and Power and Metropolitan Water District of Southern California's Colorado River Aqueduct), John Eastwood (Southern California Edison Big Creek Hydroelectric Project) along with many late 19th and early to mid 20th century pioneers, visionaries, ordinary and extra-ordinary people built large and small water supply, irrigation and hydroelectric tunnels, which have supplied environmentally friendly- water supply and electricity, and uninterrupted service to customers for a burgeoning population and economy. This paper discusses case histories and lessons learned providing enlightenment in the reliability assessment of existing structural conditions of tunnels, repair, and replacement of historic and vital water tunnel projects in California.
UT WOS:000252215200303
ER

PT C
AU de Bruijne, MLC
AF de Bruijne, MLC
GP IEEE
TI Next generation critical infrastructures: The push and pull to real-time
DE infrastructure; high-reliability; California electricity crisis
AB Critical services such as electricity, water, transportation and telecommunication increasingly present us with a paradoxical situation: Society demands ever higher reliability of these services as we grow more dependent on them, while at the same time the conventional organizational means with which to ensure that high reliability are being dismantled. Deregulation, unbundling, technological innovation, new environmental requirements - all of these developments have made the provision of highly reliable services through critical infrastructures more and more the product of networks of organizations, rather than individual organizations. A key question for Next Generation Infrastructures is therefore: how can networks of organizations, many with competing goals and interests, provide highly reliable services in the absence of conventional forms of command and control and in the presence of rapidly changing circumstances, technologies and demand? This paper reports on extensive field research that suggests the answer is: critical infrastructures increasingly rely on real-time management to maintain reliability in the face of complexity and change.
UT WOS:000226863300784
ER

PT J
AU Zhang, XJ
   Karady, GG
   Ariaratnam, ST
AF Zhang, Xianjun
   Karady, George G.
   Ariaratnam, Samuel T.
TI Optimal Allocation of CHP-Based Distributed Generation on Urban Energy
   Distribution Networks
DE Combined heat and power (CHP); distributed generation (DG); load flow
   analysis; mathematical programming; water and gas distribution networks
ID POWER-FLOW; EFFICIENCY
AB The continuing penetration of combined heat and power (CHP)-based distributed generation (DG) has made urban electricity, water, and natural gas distribution networks increasingly interconnected. This paper analyzes the optimal network capacity and distribution of the CHP-based DG based on urban energy distribution networks by introducing an integrated system dispatch model. The electricity, water, and gas network models were designed and developed individually. The CHP-based DG model was developed to couple these energy distribution systems. The results indicate the optimal allocation of CHP-based DG by analyzing multiple factors and mutual impacts on operational performances of the CHP-based DG units and energy distribution networks. The designed typical gas system is capable of supplying sufficient natural gas for DG normal operations, whereas the present water system cannot support the complete recovery of the exhaust heat from large CHP-based DG penetration.
UT WOS:000328949000027
ER

PT C
AU Abuhamdah, I
   Al Mehairi, M
AF Abuhamdah, Islam
   Al Mehairi, Matar
GP IEEE
TI DEWA's Smart Solution to Mitigate the Substation Fire Incident in Dubai
   Substation
DE Distribution substations fire; Condition monitor; Smart system;
   Reliability; STLF; LHD; RCM; P-F curve
AB Fire incidents at distribution sub-stations (SS) with voltage level of 11-6.6/0.4 kV causes high sustainability impacts such as safety risk, heavy CO2 emission, damage of equipment and power interruption to consumers. Smart assets (Grid) are needed that provide information on their condition for monitoring.
   This paper illustrates Dubai Electricity and Water Authority (DEWA) smart solution to mitigate the tire cases prior to taking place. The invented technology which called Smart Tripping System on LV Fire (STLF) will maximizes the reliability and the availability of the electricity network.
   STLF is one of DEWA's innovative projects which has won many international and national Awards on year 2014 & 2015 [1], [2], [3].
UT WOS:000380472400059
ER

PT J
AU Zhu, J
   Manandhar, B
   Truong, J
   Ganapati, NE
   Pradhananga, N
   Davidson, RA
   Mostafavi, A
AF Zhu, Jin
   Manandhar, Barsha
   Truong, Jenny
   Ganapati, N. Emel
   Pradhananga, Nipesh
   Davidson, Rachel A.
   Mostafavi, Ali
TI Assessment of Infrastructure Resilience in the 2015 Gorkha, Nepal,
   Earthquake
ID FRAMEWORK
AB Despite many studies on infrastructure resilience in the existing literature, there is a limited empirical understanding of disaster resilience in the context of intermittent infrastructure systems. To fill this knowledge gap, our study provides an example assessment of the resilience of Kathmandu Valley's electricity and water supply infrastructure systems in the 2015 Gorkha earthquake. The study is based on qualitative data collected over a period of one year following the earthquake, obtained through in-depth interviews (n = 52), a focus group, and a review of secondary sources. A resilience assessment framework that includes eight factors adapted from existing studies-vulnerability, anticipation, redundancy, adaptive capacity, rapidity, resourcefulness, cross-scale interactions, and learning culture-was used for the data analysis. The characteristics of intermittent infrastructure systems pertaining to resilience identified in this study could have important implications for engineers and decision makers in developing communities to better design and maintain infrastructure in the face of disasters.
UT WOS:000440156400010
ER

PT J
AU Alkhaleel, BA
   Liao, HT
   Sullivan, KM
AF Alkhaleel, Basem A.
   Liao, Haitao
   Sullivan, Kelly M.
TI Model and solution method for mean-risk cost-based post-disruption
   restoration of interdependent critical infrastructure networks
DE Interdependent infrastructure networks; Post-disruption restoration;
   Mixed-integer linear programming
ID SCHEDULING PROBLEMS; SCENARIO REDUCTION; ROUTING PROBLEM; RESILIENCE;
   DESIGN; SIMULATION; SYSTEMS; DECOMPOSITION; ALGORITHM; AVERSE
AB Critical infrastructure networks (CINs), such as power grids, water distribution systems, and telecommunication networks, are essential for the functioning of society and the economy. As these infrastructure networks are not isolated from each other, their functions are not independent and may be vulnerable to disruptive events (e.g., component failures, terrorist attacks, natural disasters). For decision makers, how to restore the functions of CINs while accounting for interdependencies and various uncertainties becomes a challenging task. In this work, we study the post-disruption restoration problem for a system of interdependent CINs under uncertainty. We propose a two-stage mean-risk stochastic restoration model using mixed-integer linear programming (MILP) with the goal of minimizing the total cost associated with unsatisfied demands, repair tasks, and flow of interdependent infrastructure networks. The restoration model considers the availability of limited time and resources and provides a prioritized list of components to be restored along with assigning and scheduling them to the available network-specific work crews. Additionally, the model features flexible restoration strategies including multicrew assignment for a single component and a multimodal repair setting along with the consideration of full and partial functioning and dependencies between the multi-network components. The proposed model is illustrated using the power and water networks in Shelby County, Tennessee, United States, under two hypothetical earthquake scenarios.
UT WOS:000793115900004
ER

PT J
AU Sun, BJ
   Lu, HL
   Cheng, KM
   Liu, WL
   Han, XZ
   Cui, LX
   Li, XH
   Li, SR
   Hao, X
   Li, F
   Wu, DY
   Li, T
   Zhang, YP
   Wang, JC
   Liu, P
   Du, WG
AF Sun, Bao-Jun
   Lu, Hong-Liang
   Cheng, Kun-Ming
   Liu, Wan-Li
   Han, Xing-Zhi
   Cui, Luo-Xin
   Li, Xing-Han
   Li, Shu-Ran
   Hao, Xin
   Li, Fan
   Wu, Dan-Yang
   Li, Teng
   Zhang, Yong-Pu
   Wang, Ji-Chao
   Liu, Peng
   Du, Wei-Guo
TI The Semi-Natural Climate Chambers across Latitudes: A Broadly Applicable
   Husbandry and Experimental System for Terrestrial Ectotherms under
   Climate Change
DE climate chamber; climate change; infrastructure; latitudes; terrestrial
   organism
ID VULNERABILITY; DISPERSAL; IMPACTS; PATTERNS; MESOCOSM; BEHAVIOR; ANIMALS
AB With limited resources and efforts, assessing species' vulnerabilities across various geographic regions before the conservation practice is essential for biodiversity conservation in the context of climate change. One pressing challenge has been establishing natural temperature-manipulated research systems across latitudes. To address this challenge, an innovative infrastructure is developed named the semi-natural climate chambers across latitudes (SCCAL), consisting of semi-natural climate chambers at three latitudes, spanning 27 degrees and 3393 km from tropical to temperate regions. Each latitude features eight medium-sized patches for temperature manipulation, organisms rearing, and ecological experiments. Independent of external water and electricity supplies, the SCCAL allows to simulate thermal environments under different climate change scenarios with natural soil moisture. Ecological experiments with Grass lizards successfully are conducted, demonstrating that the SCCAL effectively supports species rearing, responses determining, and the vulnerability assessing. The widespread adoption or development of similar infrastructures is encouraged, which can facilitate the assessment of latitudinal animal vulnerabilities under climate change.
UT WOS:001448223400001
ER

PT J
AU Dourado, GF
   Viers, JH
AF Dourado, Gustavo Facincani
   Viers, Joshua H.
TI Reliability and resilience of environmental flows under uncertainty:
   reconsidering water year types and inconsistent flow requirements in
   California
DE instream flows; climate change; adaptive management; San Joaquin River
ID CLIMATE-CHANGE IMPACTS; SIERRA-NEVADA; FUNCTIONAL FLOWS; HYDROPOWER;
   VULNERABILITY; MANAGEMENT; HYDROLOGY; OPERATION; SYSTEMS
AB Environmental water allocation in California is a complex legal process involving various government agencies and stakeholders. E-flow requirements can be based on annual runoff typologies called water year types (WYTs), which dictate water volume, timing, and duration. In this study, we examined hydropower licensing documents of the major water and power projects in the Central Sierra Nevada to catalog e-flow requirements by WYT. In this study case, we identify how WYT classification systems and categories vary across and within different basins. Additionally, we assessed the impacts of climate change on hydrology, the frequency of WYTs identified, and the reliability and resilience of e-flows using future projections (2031-2060) of 10 Global Circulation Models (GCMs). We then propose a potential adaptation strategy using a 30 year moving percentiles approach to recalculate WYTs. We identified eight WYT classifications systems were identified, and their WYT distributions statistically significantly changes across all GCMs, even though most GCMs indicate no statistically significant change in hydrology. Disparities in future impacts are observed among and within hydropower projects, with some river reaches showing negative impacts on reliability and resilience. The adaptation strategy can generally boost resilience and improve reliability, but simply updating existing WYT thresholds without flexible regulatory frameworks reconsidering WYTs and e-flows thresholds, may not yield substantial improvements. Challenges in managing e-flows in California within regulatory and hydroclimatic contexts are intricate due to the lack of standardized approaches, leading to inconsistencies and potential conflicts among stakeholders, that will likely be exacerbated by climate change. Thus, we emphasize that targeted, site-specific, and adaptive management strategies are crucial, besides the need for a harmonized and consistent approach to defining and applying WYT categories and methods and/or e-flow assessments.
UT WOS:001295996500001
ER

PT C
AU Mihelic-Bogdanic, A
   Budin, R
AF Mihelic-Bogdanic, Alka
   Budin, Rajka
BE Dragcevic, Z
TI ADVANCED INDUSTRIAL PROCESS ENERGY EFFICIENCY
DE finished woven fabric; fuel savings; environmental protection;
   condensate recovery; flue gases heat recovery
ID HEAT-RECOVERY
AB This review is performed in finished woven fabric production in order to improve energy efficiency as well as to develop an environmental impact outline. Diminishing a fuel consumption for process with condensate and flue gases heat recovery for boiler feed water preheating in energy management studies show an enlargement of process efficiency. At the same time that proposed treatment simultaneously reduced environmental loading. The energy consumption in analyzed textile industrial process shows the need of energy resources like natural gas, electricity and water. Based on original industrial data the existing process is optimized regarding to primary sources consumption. The mixture of process condensate and make up water is supplied to economizer where it is heated with boiler exhaust flue gases. In this case the flue gases exhaust temperature is reduced for about 1430, and the fuel savings becomes 16 %. Except natural gas lowering this valuable energy conservation technique saves chemicals for water treatment and is also environmental friendly.
UT WOS:000262707700192
ER

PT J
AU Ferrario, E
   Zio, E
AF Ferrario, E.
   Zio, E.
TI Assessing nuclear power plant safety and recovery from earthquakes using
   a system-of-systems approach
DE System of systems; Recovery 3; Seismic Probabilistic Risk Assessment;
   Hierarchical representation; Monte Carlo simulation
ID VULNERABILITY; RISK
AB We adopt a 'system-of-systems' framework of analysis, previously presented by the authors, to include the interdependent infrastructures which support a critical plant in the study of its safety with respect to the occurrence of an earthquake. We extend the framework to consider the recovery of the system of systems in which the plant is embedded. As a test system, we consider the impacts produced on a nuclear power plant (the critical plant) embedded in the connected power and water distribution, and transportation networks which support its operation. The Seismic Probabilistic Risk Assessment of such system of systems is carried out by Hierarchical modeling and Monte Carlo simulation. First, we perform a top-down analysis through a hierarchical model to identify the elements that at each level have most influence in restoring safety, adopting the criticality importance measure as a quantitative indicator. Then, we evaluate by Monte Carlo simulation the probability that the nuclear power plant enters in an unsafe state and the time needed to recover its safety. The results obtained allow the identification of those elements most critical for the safety and recovery of the nuclear power plant; this is relevant for determining improvements of their structural/functional responses and supporting the decision-making process on safety critical-issues. On the test system considered, under the given assumptions, the components of the external and internal water systems (i.e., pumps and pool) turn out to be the most critical for the safety and recovery of the plant. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000333790600011
ER

PT J
AU Eveloy, V
   Ahmed, W
AF Eveloy, Valerie
   Ahmed, Wasiq
TI Evaluation of low-carbon multi-energy options for the future UAE energy
   system
DE Sustainable energy; Energy system modeling; Hot climate; MENA; Sector
   coupling
ID POWER-GENERATION SECTOR; RENEWABLE ENERGY; ELECTRICITY SECTOR; STORAGE;
   INTEGRATION; COST; OPTIMIZATION; TRANSITION; EMISSIONS; TRANSPORT
AB Sustainable energy transitions in hot climate and fossil energy-rich regions face specific challenges including socio-economic and geopolitical uncertainties in a carbon-constrained future, accompanied by significant vulnerability to climate change. Low-carbon multi-energy conversion, storage and use options for the future United Arab Emirates energy system (power, water, buildings, transportation, industry) are investigated technically and economically using EnergyPLAN energy planning tool. Emphasis is placed on solar energy with variable shares in conjunction with thermal, battery and hydrogen storage in the power sector, reverse osmosis desalination, district cooling with a mix of compression and absorption cooling, electric transportation, and industrial electrification. The effects of these measures on annual primary fuel consumption (PFC), greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) and cost are evaluated in incremental steps, with reference to a business-as-usual (BAU) scenario. The most favorable combination of low-carbon measures is found to reduce annual PFC and GHG emissions by 37% and 48%, respectively, relative to the BAU case. In parallel, total annual costs would reduce by 25% compared to the BAU scenario, primarily due to reductions in fuel and carbon costs, that offset increased investment costs. In addition, the levelized costs of electricity, water and cooling could reduce by 42%, 63%, and 20%, respectively, relative to the BAU case. The analyzes presented contribute directions towards sustainable energy transitions in fossil energy-rich and hot climate regions.
UT WOS:000878732000006
ER

PT C
AU Lakeh, RB
   Andrade, D
   Miller, KJ
   Du, BW
   Pham, J
   Modabernia, MM
   Ng, PY
   Nguyen, TN
   Nguyen, JL
   Mena, C
   Anderson, KR
   Sharbatmaleki, M
AF Lakeh, Reza Baghaei
   Andrade, Daniel
   Miller, Kyle J.
   Du, Bowen
   Pham, Joshua
   Modabernia, Mohammad M.
   Ng, Pui Y.
   Nguyen, Thuan N.
   Nguyen, Justine L.
   Mena, Crystal
   Anderson, Kevin R.
   Sharbatmaleki, Mohammadali
GP ASME
TI A CASE STUDY OF DECENTRALIZED OFF-GRID WATER TREATMENT USING REVERSE
   OSMOSIS
AB Decentralized water treatment consists of a variety of water treatment techniques for dwellings, industrial facilities, homes, and businesses independent of the power grid. According to the United States Geological Survey, brackish groundwater is abundant in the southwestern states including California; hence it can potentially be considered a new source for California's water portfolio. Most of membrane-based desalination technologies (e.g. reverse osmosis) have high energy demand and cost. Using renewable energy (mostly solar photovoltaics) in concert with membrane-based water desalination can be utilized to develop decentralized and off-grid brackish water desalination systems especially for remote and rural regions. In this paper, the results of a case study on decentralized off-grid brackish water system have been presented and discussed. The system utilizes a high pressure pump that can provide a feed flow rate of 2.2 gpm of at 140 psi. The system is run by solar photovoltaic panels through a battery bank. The results of the study show that the system is capable of treating brackish water at a salt rejection rate of more than 97.5% and a recovery rate up to 80%.
UT WOS:000428483300037
ER

PT J
AU Yeh, WC
AF Yeh, Wei-Chang
TI Novel recursive inclusion-exclusion technology based on BAT and MPs for
   heterogeneous-arc binary-state network reliability problems
DE Binary-state network; Network reliability; Heterogeneous arc; Minimal
   path (MP); Inclusion-exclusion technique (IET); Binary-addition-tree
   algorithm
ID FLOW NETWORK; SYSTEM RELIABILITY; MULTISTATE NETWORKS; SIMPLE ALGORITHM;
   NEURAL-NETWORK; MINIMAL PATHS; SEARCH
AB Current network applications, such as utility networks (gas, water, electricity, and 4G/5G), the Internet of Things (IoT), social networks, and supply chains, are all based on binary state networks. Reliability is one of the most commonly used tools for evaluating network performance, and the minimal path (MP) is a basic algorithm for calculating reliability. However, almost all existing algorithms assume that all undirected arcs are homogeneous; that is, the probability of an arc from nodes a to b is equal to that from nodes b to a. Therefore, based on MPs, the binary-addition-tree algorithm (BAT), and the inclusion-exclusion technique (IET), a novel recursive IET known as recursive BAT-based IET (RIE) is proposed to solve the heterogeneous-arc binary-state network reliability problem to overcome the above obstacles in applications. The computational complexity of the proposed RIE is analyzed using an illustrative example. Finally, 11 benchmark problems are used to verify the performance of RIE.
UT WOS:000896689600003
ER

PT J
AU Williams, JB
AF Williams, James Bryan
TI Critical flow centrality measures on interdependent networks with time
   demands
DE Component importance measures; Centrality measures; Network science;
   Infrastructure reliability; Network reliability; Network dependencies
ID INFRASTRUCTURE; SYSTEMS; RISK
AB This paper presents a method that allows urban planners and municipal engineers to identify critical components of interdependent infrastructure systems. The intent of the method is to provide a means of modeling the impact of capacity-related changes (e.g., population growth, component degradation) on a city's ability to deliver resources to critical locations. Infrastructure systems are modeled as flow networks in which capacities, demands, and supply constraints vary over time; demand nodes also have criticality ratings that allow a user to model levels of importance. Interconnections between infrastructure systems are represented by physical and geospatial dependencies at a component level. A flow-based centrality measure is used to rank components according to their role in the delivery of resources to critical locations. A simple instantiation of the method is presented and evaluated on a district-scale model of a city that contains interconnected water and electricity networks. Finally, two forms of reliability analysis are demonstrated: a composite measure incorporating edge reliability, and a variation on standard component failure/degradation analysis.
UT WOS:000701920100009
ER

PT J
AU Wen, H
   Ni, SM
   Wang, JG
   Cai, CF
AF Wen, Hui
   Ni, Shimin
   Wang, Junguang
   Cai, Chongfa
TI Changes of soil quality induced by different vegetation restoration in
   the collapsing gully erosion areas of southern China
DE Vegetation restoration; Collapsing gully; Soil saturated hydraulic
   conductivity; Soil quality index
AB Understanding the influence of collapsing gully management restoration on soil quality and function is essential to the protection of the regional ecological environment in the collapsing gully erosion area. The primary objective of this study was to construct soil quality index (SQI) to assess the influence of different vegetation restoration types on soil quality in collapsing gully restoration. The influence of five vegetation restoration types on soil properties was investigated by using a path analysis, a comprehensive soil quality index (SQI), and a general linear model (GLM). Vegetation restoration was shown to significantly increase the saturated hydraulic conductivity (Ks), mainly due to the effect of the physical parameters of bulk density, soil cohesion, and soil water content. Meanwhile, pH, Ks, soil organic matter (OM), and sand content were revealed as reasonable indicators to evaluate the influence of vegetation restoration on soil quality. Moreover, vegetation restoration was found to significantly improve the soil quality, with the highest SQI value for natural restoration mixed forest (NF), followed by replanted arboreal forest (RA) and replanted scrubland (RS), which were all significantly higher than the SQI value of the erosion area (EA) in the collapsing gully. Additionally, vegetation type explained the most substantial proportion of total variability (46.41%), and restoration time showed a positive correlation with SQI. The results of this study can provide a reference for the restoration and protection of the regional ecological environment in the collapsing gully area. (c) 2020 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation and China Water and Power Press. Production and Hosting by Elsevier B.V.
UT WOS:000638255100003
ER

PT J
AU Al-Sofi, MAK
   Hassan, AM
   Hamad, OA
   Mustafa, GM
   Dalvi, AGI
   Kither, MNM
AF Al-Sofi, MAK
   Hassan, AM
   Hamad, OA
   Mustafa, GM
   Dalvi, AGI
   Kither, MNM
TI Means and merits of higher temperature operation in dual-purpose plants
DE pretreatment; permeation; nanofiltration; seawater reverse osmosis
   (SWRO); distillation; TBT; hardness; loss of total alkalinity (LTA)
ID SCALE CONTROL; NANOFILTRATION
AB For the last 3 years, the SWCC-RDC conducted extensive R&D work on nanofiltration (NF) pretreatment of feed to SWRO and make-up to MSF pilot plants in dihybrid arrangement of NF-SWRO or NF-MSF, also in trihybrid of NF-SWROreject-MSF, where the SWROreject from the dihybrid NF-SWRO is used as make-up to the MSF unit. In both di-/trihybrid the MSF unit was operated successfully at 120 degrees C without further acidification, antiscalant or antifoam. The paper summarizes the MSF performance, which was established at operating Top Brine Temperature (TBT) of 120 degrees C, in the dihybrid NF-MSF and trihybrid NF-SWROreject-MSF systems. Because of the excellent MSF performance at this TBT of 120 degrees C, the paper also addresses the planned operation of MSF at elevated TBT of 120 to 160 degrees C and above. These gained advantages in improved performance of MSF when make-up is directly or indirectly from NF (in di- or trihybrid, respectively) triggered a review of dual power and water production cycle of boiler turbine generator: BTG and multistage flash: MSF cycle design. Such combination, i.e., dual purpose BTG-MSF process, could lead to simultaneous increases in water and power production. Simulation model results of such increases are shown in this paper. The described MSF performance also revived interests in gas turbine generator: GTG, heat recovery steam generator: HRSG and steam turbine generator: STG, (with MSF) thus power and water (dual purpose) combined cycle: PWCC.
UT WOS:000083740700023
ER

PT J
AU Rouleau, J
   Gosselin, L
   Blanchet, P
AF Rouleau, Jean
   Gosselin, Louis
   Blanchet, Pierre
TI Robustness of energy consumption and comfort in high-performance
   residential building with respect to occupant behavior
DE Occupant behavior; Residential buildings; Monte Carlo simulations;
   Sensitivity analysis; Occupant diversity
ID SENSITIVITY-ANALYSIS; HEATING CONSUMPTION; SIMULATION; SYSTEM; IMPACT;
   METHODOLOGY; DIVERSITY; DWELLINGS; CLIMATE; MODELS
AB Building energy simulations rely on assumptions that can affect their reliability. Occupant behavior in particular is highly uncertain, especially for residential buildings. The great variability of occupants' actions has a great impact on the energy performance of a building and can explain the failures of building simulations to accurately forecast the energy demand of a building. This study quantifies the impacts of humans on the performance of a residential building by simulating dwellings using multiple realistic occupant behavior profiles. The dwelling models were validated with monitored data. Aspects of occupant behavior covered in this study are occupancy, hot water and electricity consumption, heating set point temperature and openings of windows. The individual impact of all these aspects on energy demand and thermal comfort are analysed. Results show great variability of energy consumption and thermal comfort for a given dwelling when different occupants are living in it, with coefficient of variation of approximately 50%. Large housing stocks are less sensitive to occupant behavior than individual dwellings, but their consumption levels remain difficult to predict when using a deterministic approach to represent occupant behavior. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000505271100060
ER

PT J
AU Gargari, MZ
   Ghaffarpour, R
AF Gargari, Milad Zamani
   Ghaffarpour, Reza
TI Reliability evaluation of multi-carrier energy system with different
   level of demands under various weather situation
DE Energy hub; Reliability; CHP unit; Oscillating column water (OWC); NAS
   battery
ID THERMAL STORAGE; WIND; HUB; UNCERTAINTY; PREDICTION; NETWORK; COST;
   FLEXIBILITY; INTEGRATION; DISPATCH
AB Multi-carrier systems enable the cooperation between different energy types to answer the electricity, water, heating and cooling demand together. One of the most important problems related to procuring energy for consumers is the reliability of delivered energy. This paper contributes a framework to assess the reliability of energy hub based on its elements and input energy carriers. Loss of load expectation (LOLE), loss of load probability (LOLP) and expected energy not supplied (EENS) have been employed to determine the reliability of the multi-energy carrier system in two different weather condition. The interactions between different energy carriers have been formed based on the exact model of energy storages. The calculation of the reliability assessment for energy hub has been performed by using MATLAB software. The results of the employment of the presented framework on a case study with various types of energy converters have been illustrated that the reliability of demands has been increased significantly by the use of an energy hub concept. Also, the reliability of energy hub has been imposed based on the size of components to recognize the impacts of each component on the general reliability of the system. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000527567200071
ER

PT J
AU Nasiri, G
   Kavousi-Fard, A
AF Nasiri, Gholamreza
   Kavousi-Fard, Abdollah
TI A Digital Twin-Based System to Manage the Energy Hub and Enhance the
   Electrical Grid Resiliency
DE digital twin; physical twin; hub system; vulnerability and resiliency
   indices; the electrical grid
ID OPTIMIZATION
AB This article addresses a digital twin-based real-time analysis (DTRA) to meditate the power system vulnerability whenever cascading failures and blackouts occur for any reason, and thus, to improve the resiliency. In addition to this, a water-power package is proposed to enhance the vulnerable percentage of the system by promptly syringing energy to the grid under line/generator outage contingencies. To this end, in the first place, we will develop a digital twin model along with a cloud platform derived from the Amazon Cloud Service (ACS) into the Amazon Web in order to scrutinize the online vulnerability data arising from the equivalent physical twin in real-time. Indeed, such a DTRA model can help us check the real grid's behavior and determine how to meet the needs of the energy hub system to prevent blackouts. Additionally, a modified bat-based optimization algorithm is matched to settle the energy between the hub system and the electrical grid in furtherance of real-time analysis. To raise awareness, we will first compile how the hub system interactions can be effective in declining the vulnerability indices, and afterward, we will map out the ACS-based digital twin model on the studied case.
UT WOS:000958339100001
ER

PT J
AU Tang, ZL
   Chu, DK
   Yao, P
   Zhou, YP
   Qu, SS
AF Tang, Zhiliang
   Chu, Dongkai
   Yao, Peng
   Zhou, Yongping
   Qu, Shuoshuo
TI Aluminum-based interfacial evaporator fabricated by picosecond laser
   synergistic high-temperature carbonization for multistage
   water-electricity cogeneration
DE Multi-stage water-electricity cogeneration; Picosecond laser;
   Aluminum-based interfacial evaporator; High-temperature carbonization;
   Latent heat recovery
ID SOLAR; OPPORTUNITIES; DESALINATION; GENERATION; EFFICIENCY
AB Energy shortages and freshwater scarcity severely restrict the sustainable development of modern society. Multistage water-electricity cogeneration (MSWEG) systems, which utilize solar energy to simultaneously generate electricity and freshwater, provide a promising strategic solution. However, such systems currently suffer from high fabrication costs, complex operation, and material corrosion, which severely restrict their practical application and further development. Herein, a novel MSWEG system is proposed. The fabrication of the aluminum (Al)-based interfacial evaporator employs the picosecond laser-treated high-temperature carbonization (LTHTC) approach. The grooves fabricated by laser processing have an initial depth of 200 & micro;m and width of 350 & micro;m. After high-temperature carbonization, the grooves shrink to 150 & micro;m in depth and 193 & micro;m in width with a higher aspect ratio, forming dense capillary water transport channels, while uniformly distributed carbon particles are generated on the surface. The evaporator achieves 99.3% full-spectrum solar absorption. The 6-stage MSWEG system achieves a high-water production rate of 2.84 kg m- 2 h- 1 and a 191% solar conversion efficiency under 1 kW m- 2 illumination, achieving maximum output power density of 21.62 & micro;W cm- 2. This MSWEG system offers a feasible strategy for water purification and power supply in remote regions.
UT WOS:001825111200001
ER

PT J
AU Issahaku, G
   Abdul-Rahaman, A
AF Issahaku, Gazali
   Abdul-Rahaman, Awal
TI Sustainable land management practices, off-farm work participation and
   vulnerability among farmers in Ghana: Is there a nexus?
DE Sustainable land management; Adoption intensity; Vulnerability;
   Bivariate Tobit; Endogenous switching probit
ID WATER CONSERVATION; CLIMATE-CHANGE; IMPACT; POVERTY; INCOME; ADOPTION;
   TECHNOLOGIES; SOIL
AB Addressing issues of agricultural sustainability and vulnerability to poverty under climate change are major challenges to development in the 21st century. Accounting for the trade-off and synergies between off-farm work participation and sustainable land management on one hand, and vulnerability to poverty on the other hand, will therefore be useful to policy. In this study, we use recent farm household data from Ghana to examine the effect of off-farm work participation on intensity of adoption of sustainable land management (SLM) practices and impact of off-farm work participation on vulnerability to poverty. We employed a bivariate Tobit model to examine the determinants of SLM adoption intensity, and endogenous switching probit model to assess the impact of off-farm work participation on vulnerability to poverty. The results reveal that participation in off-farm is positively and significantly associated with adoption intensity of bunds, and organic manure. The results also show that off-farm work participation significantly reduces household vulnerability to poverty by 13%. Based on these findings, we conclude that rural development through non-farm work opportunities can lead to positive synergies between sustainable agricultural production, off-farm employment and poverty alleviation. (C) 2018 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation and China Water and Power Press. Production and Hosting by Elsevier B.V.
UT WOS:000461196000003
ER

PT J
AU Atsiz, E
   Balcik, B
   Gunnec, D
   Sevindik, BU
AF Atsiz, Eren
   Balcik, Burcu
   Gunnec, Dilek
   Sevindik, Busra Uydasoglu
TI A coordinated repair routing problem for post-disaster recovery of
   interdependent infrastructure networks
DE Interdependent infrastructure networks; Repair planning; Coordinated
   routing; Simulated annealing
ID TIME WINDOWS; RESTORATION; SYSTEMS; DESIGN
AB Disasters may cause significant damages and long-lasting failures in lifeline infrastructure networks (such as gas, power and water), which must be recovered quickly to resume providing essential services to the affected communities. While making repair plans, it is important to consider the interdependencies among network components to minimize recovery times. In this paper, we focus on post-disaster repair operations of multiple interdependent lifeline networks, which involve functional dependencies. We assume that each network component, whether damaged or not, becomes nonfunctional if it depends on another nonfunctional component, and it is recovered when all components that it depends on become functional. We introduce a post-disaster coordinated infrastructure repair routing problem, in which dedicated repair teams of each lifeline infrastructure travel through a road network to visit the sites with damaged network components. We present a mixed integer programming model that assigns repair teams to the sites and constructs routes for each team in order to minimize the sum of the recovery times for all network components. We develop a constructive heuristic and a simulated annealing algorithm to solve the proposed coordinated routing problem. We test the performance of the proposed solution algorithms on a set of instances that are developed based on two interdependent lifeline networks (e.g., power and gas). The computational results show that our heuristics can quickly find high-quality solutions. Our results also indicate that coordinating repair operations can significantly improve the overall recovery time of interdependent infrastructure networks.
UT WOS:000612890500002
ER

PT C
AU Kim, JY
   Han, K
   Ahn, CK
   Lee, MS
   Rhee, CH
   Chun, HD
AF Kim, Je Young
   Han, Kunwoo
   Ahn, Chi Kyu
   Lee, Man Su
   Rhee, Chang Houn
   Chun, Hee Dong
BE Dixon, T
   Yamaji, K
TI Operating cost for CO2 capture process using aqueous ammonia
DE aqueous ammonia; CO2 capture; process economics; cost analysis
AB In the present paper, we report the result of cost analysis associated with the operation of CO2 capture pilot facility using aqueous ammonia. The facility treating 1,000 Nm(3)/hr of BFG (blast furnace gas) is in operation with the production capacity of 10 t-CO2/d. From the pilot plant operation we found that the CO2 recovery was 90% and the purity of product CO2 was over 98%. Waste heat recovery system for steam generation was installed and integrated with the CO2 capture facility successfully. Operating cost analysis based on the running data of the facility has been performed based on the consumptions of steam, electricity, water, and chemical. Since the process uses waste heat recovery system, the majority of operating cost is the electricity consumption. Excluding the steam cost generated by the waste heat recovery system, the operating cost for the process was estimated under $20/t-CO2. (C) 2013 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
UT WOS:000345500500079
ER

PT J
AU Xu, NX
   Guikema, SD
   Davidson, RA
   Nozick, LK
   Çagnan, Z
   Vaziri, K
AF Xu, Ningxiong
   Guikema, Seth D.
   Davidson, Rachel A.
   Nozick, Linda K.
   Cagnan, Zehra
   Vaziri, Kabeh
TI Optimizing scheduling of post-earthquake electric power restoration
   tasks
DE electric power; lifeline; restoration; risk management; optimization;
   genetic algorithm
ID RESOURCE; CLASSIFICATION; MODELS
AB This paper presents a stochastic integer program developed to determine how to schedule inspection, damage assessment, and repair tasks so as to optimize the post-earthquake restoration of the electric power system. The objective of the optimization is to minimize the average time each customer is without power, and a genetic algorithm is used to solve it. The effectiveness of the schedules recommended by the optimization are evaluated by running a detailed discrete event simulation model of the restoration process with both the optimization-generated schedules and the power company's original schedules, and comparing the resulting restorations according to three measures-average time each customer is without power, time required to restore 90% of customers, and time required to restore 98% of customers. The optimization and simulation models both consider all the earthquakes that could affect the power system and represent the uncertainty surrounding expected restoration times. The models were developed through an application to the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power (LADWP) electric power system, but the general approach is extendable to other electric power systems, other lifelines, and other hazards. Copyright (C) 2006 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
UT WOS:000243695300007
ER

PT J
AU Haddad, M
   Strohmeier, SM
   Nouwakpo, K
   Rimawi, O
   Weltz, M
   Sterk, G
AF Haddad, Mira
   Strohmeier, Stefan Martin
   Nouwakpo, Kossi
   Rimawi, Omar
   Weltz, Mark
   Sterk, Geert
TI Rangeland restoration in Jordan: Restoring vegetation cover by water
   harvesting measures
ID EROSION MODEL; SOIL-EROSION; HYDROLOGY; RESOURCES
AB Restoration of the degraded rangelands in Jordan using mechanized water harvesting and native species planting has become key to enhancing and maintaining the productivity and resilience of fragile eco-systems. A balanced interaction between the rangeland's hydrology and vegetation states is vital for achieving long-term sustainability. To gain a better insight into the impact of restoration on surface runoff and erosion and its role in recovering the ecosystem functions, we used the Rangeland Hydro-logical and Erosion Model (RHEM) to simulate various vegetation scenarios. Our research aims to un-derstand the rangelands' water and sediment dynamics and the vegetation transition states of the ecosystem through evaluating the current (degraded) situation, assess the restoration approach on improving the degraded status (restored), and investigate the long-term sustainability of the restoration approach compared with historical rangeland conditions (baseline). Several scenarios were developed with rangeland experts, local community representatives, and measurements at protected and restored areas to represent the rangeland conditions. We found that restoration of the degraded Badia areas will decrease annual surface runoff from an average of 23.5 to 19.1 mm/year and soil erosion rate from 3.3 to 1.3 tons/ha. With time, restoration can bring back rangeland water and sediment dynamics closer to-wards the baseline conditions, which were 16.9 mm/year runoff rates and 0.85 ton/ha/year soil loss. The results indicate that restoration is a promising methodology to restore the degraded ecosystem and approximate the environment's historical hydrological regime.(c) 2022 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
UT WOS:000888555200001
ER

PT J
AU Assaf, J
   Shabani, B
AF Assaf, Jihane
   Shabani, Bahman
TI Economic analysis and assessment of a standalone solar-hydrogen combined
   heat and power system integrated with solar-thermal collectors
DE Solar-hydrogen; Economic analysis; Integrated renewable system; Combined
   heat and power; Remote area
ID SUSTAINABLE ENERGY ECONOMY; TECHNOECONOMIC ANALYSIS; FUEL-CELL; BATTERY
   SYSTEM; HYBRID SYSTEM; WIND; PERFORMANCE; RENEWABLES; OPTIMIZATION;
   TECHNOLOGIES
AB The paper presents a techno-economic assessment and analysis of a novel hybrid renewable system simulated in TRNSYS that consists of a solar-hydrogen combined heat and power system integrated with solarthermal collectors (SH CHP-ST) for standalone applications. An economic model considering the rate of decrease in price and the limit cost of non-mature technologies is developed and metrics about the efficiencies, system reliability, economic, and environmental performance for the system are defined. These are applied to a case study of a remote household application in Victoria, Australia. Considering a reference scenario of using a conventional diesel generator for power supply and LPG for hot water supply, the results of this analysis confirmed the economic feasibility of implementing the SH CHP-ST system for remote household applications along with high reliabilities (100% for power, and 95% for thermal) for the case study. The results also suggest possibilities for the system to be competitive against grid supply and LPG for electricity and gas water heating in standard grid-connected household applications. A sensitivity analysis is carried in order to study the effect of some parameters (e.g. interest rate, capital costs the hydrogen components, increase in loads, etc.) on the metrics of the system. (C) 2016 Hydrogen Energy Publications LLC. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000385598300009
ER

PT J
AU Poudel, A
   Argyroudis, S
   Pitilakis, K
AF Poudel, Astha
   Argyroudis, Sotirios
   Pitilakis, Kyriazis
TI Systemic seismic risk assessment of urban healthcare system considering
   interdependencies to critical infrastructures
DE Infrastructure risk; Systemic analysis; Healthcare system;
   Interdependencies; Urban emergency system; Seismic Risk
ID HOSPITAL SYSTEM; RESILIENCE; NETWORKS; VULNERABILITY; PERFORMANCE;
   SIMULATION; FRAGILITY; BEHAVIOR; HAZARD
AB The performance of healthcare and other emergency systems, like firefighting, is of utmost importance in the aftermath of natural disasters such as seismic events. However, previous studies have often overlooked the interconnectedness of emergency systems to other critical infrastructures. In reality, the performance of the healthcare system does not only rely on the vulnerability of hospital buildings, but also on the vulnerability and performance of interdependent critical infrastructures, such as the transportation system for the accessibility of injured people to hospitals from the damaged sites or the continuous supply of water and electricity for the uninterrupted operation of hospital facilities. These interdependencies can significantly impact the overall emergency response effectiveness and is vital to consider them in the design and assessment of healthcare systems to safeguard resilience of the community. This study proposes a comprehensive methodological framework and associated metrics for evaluating and mapping the healthcare system's performance considering its interdependencies with other critical infrastructures. It encompasses hazard characterization, risk assessment at both component and system levels, and network-based analysis with conditional branching to account for first and second order interdependencies. The proposed framework is applied to the healthcare system of Thessaloniki, Greece. The operational tool and insights can help to prioritize ex-ante investments and identify ex-post intervention measures, ensuring an emergency response system on an urban scale within a resilient systemic perspective. Its applicability can be extended to address a spectrum of other hazards and interdependencies at urban and regional scales, to ensure peoples' safety and minimize socioeconomic losses.
UT WOS:001205704600001
ER

PT J
AU Mao, D
   Wang, P
   Ju, YC
   Ni, L
AF Mao, Ding
   Wang, Peng
   Ju, Yuchen
   Ni, Long
TI Failure consequence evaluation of uncontrollable district heating
   network
DE District heating network; Failure consequence assessment; Critical area
   identification; Graph theory; Information entropy; Safety economics
ID VULNERABILITY ANALYSIS; PIPE NETWORK; OPTIMIZATION; SYSTEMS; DESIGN;
   RELIABILITY; OPERATION; FRAMEWORK; RISK
AB The control system of some existing district heating networks (DHNs) is not sufficient to handle urgent failure scenarios, which cannot make timely and effective responses within a short period after failures. The failure of this uncontrollable DHN will cause more severe consequences. To search critical areas for protection, this study proposed a failure consequence evaluation model. Then, the calculation model of each evaluation index was established based on graph theory, information entropy and safety economics considering topology, function, casualty and economy losses. Spearman correlation coefficient was applied to analyze the correlation of various evaluation indexes and we studied the applicability of each index. Finally, we simulated a single-heat-source DHN case for failure consequences. According to the simulation results, the critical isolation areas are effectively-identified, and the results indicate the applicability of the evaluation model. Moreover, the factors affecting the failure consequences were explored through sensitivity analysis. Among the three sensitive factors of maintenance time, unit price of electricity, water and heat, compensation coefficient, the maintenance time has the most significant influence on failure consequences. When the maintenance time reduces by 20%, the property economic loss in each isolation area reduces by 8.5-29.28%.
UT WOS:000822361900001
ER

PT J
AU Ochi, S
   Kato, S
   Kobayashi, K
   Kanatani, Y
AF Ochi, Sae
   Kato, Shigeaki
   Kobayashi, Kenichi
   Kanatani, Yasuhiro
TI Disaster Vulnerability of Hospitals: A Nationwide Surveillance in Japan
DE disaster preparedness; hospital; nationwide surveillance; vulnerability
   analysis
ID EARTHQUAKE
AB Objective Hospital preparedness against disasters is key to achieving disaster mitigation for health. To gain a holistic view of hospitals in Japan, one of the most disaster-prone countries, a nationwide surveillance of hospital preparedness was conducted.
   Methods A cross-sectional, paper-based interview was conducted that targeted all of the 8701 registered hospitals in Japan. Preparedness was assessed with regard to local hazards, compliance to building code, and preparation of resources such as electricity, water, communication tools, and transportation tools.
   Results Answers were obtained from 6122 hospitals (response rate: 70.3%), among which 20.5% were public (national or city-run) hospitals and others were private. Eight percent were the hospitals assigned as disaster-base hospitals and the others were non-disaster-base hospitals. Overall compliance to building code, power generators, water tanks, emergency communication tools, and helicopter platforms was 90%, 84%, 95%, 43%, and 22%, respectively.
   Conclusion Major vulnerabilities in logistics in mega-cities and stockpiles required for chronic care emerged from the results of this nationwide surveillance of hospitals in Japan. To conduct further intensive surveillance to meet community health needs, appropriate sampling methods should be established on the basis of this preliminary study. Holistic vulnerability analysis of community hospitals will lead to more robust disaster mitigation at the local level. (Disaster Med Public Health Preparedness. 2015;9:614-618)
UT WOS:000365323100005
ER

PT J
AU Wang, ZX
   Du, S
   Wang, LW
   Chen, X
AF Wang, Z. X.
   Du, S.
   Wang, L. W.
   Chen, X.
TI Parameter analysis of an ammonia-water power cycle with a gravity
   assisted thermal driven "pump" for low-grade heat recovery
DE Low-grade thermal energy; Small-scale power system; Gravity assisted
   thermal driven "pump"; Ammonia-water; Absorption
ID ORGANIC RANKINE-CYCLE; ORC SYSTEM; SMALL-CAPACITY; KALINA CYCLE;
   GENERATION; ENERGY; INTEGRATION; R245FA; CHARGE; PLANT
AB The diaphragm pump is commonly utilized in the small-scale ammonia-water power cycle for pumping the liquid from absorber to evaporator. The electricity consumption and possible leakage of such a pump influence the system efficiency and reliability significantly. In order to find an alternative "pump" with high reliability and low cost, a gravity assisted thermal driven "pump" (GTP), which is consisted of three top-down organized units connecting absorber and evaporator separately, is designed. With the charging and discharging phases, the pressure in each unit fluctuates, and the level of the liquid increases and decreases alternately by the function of gravity. The results of the system show that the net work and thermal efficiency are 10.68 kW and 9.9%, respectively, when the evaporator and absorber are at 140 degrees C/4000 kPa and 25 degrees C/800 kPa separately. The optimal net work, thermal efficiency and exergy efficiency are improved by 4.87%, 3.62% and 10.06% respectively compared with the conventional cycle. An application of the GTP power cycle with the capacity of 10 kW driven by the biomass boiler is analyzed, and the results show that the electricity produced by 645 kg biomass pellets can support more than 12 households per day. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000526747900054
ER

PT J
AU Scanlon, BR
   Duncan, I
   Reedy, RC
AF Scanlon, Bridget R.
   Duncan, Ian
   Reedy, Robert C.
TI Drought and the water-energy nexus in Texas
DE drought vulnerability; water-energy nexus; thermoelectric generation;
   natural gas
ID UNITED-STATES; SHALE-GAS
AB Texas experienced the most extreme drought on record in 2011 with up to 100 days of triple digit temperatures resulting in record electricity demand and historically low reservoir levels. We quantified water and electricity demand and supply for each power plant during the drought relative to 2010 (baseline). Drought raised electricity demands/generation by 6%, increasing water demands/consumption for electricity by 9%. Reductions in monitored reservoir storage <50% of capacity in 2011 would suggest drought vulnerability, but data show that the power plants were flexible enough at the plant level to adapt by switching to less water-intensive technologies. Natural gas, now similar to 50% of power generation in Texas, enhances drought resilience by increasing the flexibility of power plant generators, including gas combustion turbines to complement increasing wind generation and combined cycle generators with similar to 30% of cooling water requirements of traditional steam turbine plants. These reductions in water use are projected to continue to 2030 with increased use of natural gas and renewables. Although water use for gas production is controversial, these data show that water saved by using natural gas combined cycle plants relative to coal steam turbine plants is 25-50 times greater than the amount of water used in hydraulic fracturing to extract the gas.
UT WOS:000329604900097
ER

PT C
AU Choi, J
   Hastak, M
AF Choi, Juyeong
   Hastak, Makarand
BE Wang, C
   Harper, C
   Lee, Y
   Harris, R
   Berryman, C
TI Robustness Enhancement of Healthcare Infrastructure through Intelligent
   Planning Units (IPUs)
ID FACILITIES; CAPACITY; STRESS; IMPACT
AB The timely and coordinated functioning of critical infrastructure enables healthcare facilities to efficiently provide patients with proper care during post-disaster recovery. Specifically, to efficiently treat patients in a post-disaster situation, hospitals require sufficient medical staff, beds, medical supplies, water and electricity for treatment and building facilities, and auxiliary capacities (i.e., bottled water and backup generators) in preparation for utility disruption. Any disruption to the related infrastructure may impair the quality of patients' medical treatment. As it is not economically viable to have substantial resources reserved in case of utility disruption, healthcare facilities need to prepare strategic medical processes to adequately serve patients under utility service constraints. This research utilizes the theory of intelligent planning units (IPUs), which enhance post-disaster robustness of healthcare systems by streamlining the process for post-disaster operation. The IPUs were designed by breaking down the post-disaster operation of healthcare systems into process units at a single-patient-care level while the IPUs scale up to plan the process at a higher level (e.g., service-room-level or hospital-level). To demonstrate their application, this study explored the process of a hypothetical intensive care unit under varying conditions of utility availability. The outcome of this research is well-defined process IPUs for single-patient-care that can be replicated to optimize the process at a higher level of medical operations during ex-ante post-disaster scenarios. Further, the unavailability of utility services governs the feasible quality of medical treatment processes. This study offers guidance on how to plan auxiliary capacities to support optimal medical treatment processes in various post-disaster scenarios.
UT WOS:000432426900021
ER

PT J
AU ALBAGHDADI, AM
AF ALBAGHDADI, AM
TI FEASIBILITY OF INSTALLING BACK PRESSURE TURBINE AT UMM-AL-NAR-EAST
   STATION
AB The Water and Electricity Department (WED) of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi is studying the possibilities of increasing the generation capacities of their existing equipment. This paper will discuss one way of increasing the power output from one operating station - the Umm Al Nar East (UNE) station. The results based on data recorded for one year show that an extra 65 MW could be obtained continuously from the station. This requires the supply of 3 sets of back pressure turbines (BPT), which will use the medium pressure steam available at the station, instead of passing it through pressure reducing valves. The exhaust steam will be sent to the desalination plants. The price of these extra power generators will be cheap compared to separate power generators having the same capacity, as the boilers and condensers are already on the site. Also, the running cost for this extra generation will be less as most of the steam is produced by heat recovery boilers at almost no fuel cost. The final results after installing the BPT's show that the cogeneration efficiency of the station will improve. This improvement will reduce the unit price cost for both water and electricity.
UT WOS:A1993LV47600009
ER

PT J
AU Hao, JY
   Hao, JC
   Liu, C
   Liu, DF
   Ren, GX
   Zhao, ZW
   Xu, WH
AF Hao, Jiayu
   Hao, Jiacheng
   Liu, Chang
   Liu, Dongfu
   Ren, Guoxing
   Zhao, Zhongwei
   Xu, Wenhua
TI A novel electrochemical and salt-field evaporation combined strategy for
   sustainable lithium extraction from raw brine with reduced resource
   consumption
DE Electrochemical intercalation/deintercalation; Lithium extraction; Raw
   brine; LiFePO 4; Salt field evaporation
ID LI EXTRACTION; LAKE BRINES; RECOVERY; ELECTRODIALYSIS; LIFEPO4/FEPO4
AB Salt lake brine represents a critical resource for lithium, which is vital for maintaining a stable supply of lithium salts in response to increasing global demand. However, the sustainable extraction of lithium from salt lakes faces significant challenges, mainly due to water and electricity shortages. This paper proposes a novel strategy that combines the electrochemical intercalation/deintercalation method with salt-field evaporation to reduce water and electricity consumption. Firstly, utilizing the "LiFePO4/FePO4" system allowed for effective separation of Li+ from impurities, yielding a lithium-rich liquid with a Li+ concentration of 5 g center dot L-1 with a high separation factor ranging from 79.26 to 122.9. Subsequently, low-salt lithium-rich liquids were evaporated and concentrated using the salt-field evaporation process, resulting in the sequential precipitation of NaCl, Li2SO4 center dot H2O, and LiCl center dot H2O. In the later stage of NaCl precipitation, a concentrated solution with a lithium concentration of 50.69 g center dot L-1 was achieved, and the purity of LiCl increased from 71.3 % to 93.07 %. After simple impurity removal, the obtained concentrate can be directly used to prepare industrial-grade lithium carbonate products. Throughout the process, the water consumption for preparing one ton of lithium carbonate was only 60 m3, and the electricity consumption was 3537 kWh. This innovative method provides a feasible solution for the large-scale development of lithium carbonate in salt lake areas where water and electricity resources are scarce.
UT WOS:001513217200004
ER

PT C
AU Yuan, H
   Jiang, JY
   Wang, PL
AF Yuan, Huan
   Jiang, Jin-yu
   Wang, Pei-ling
BE Shahhosseini, AM
TI The Design of Solar Water Heating Remote Monitoring System Based on GSM
   Technology
DE GSM; solar energy; water supply; monitoring
AB The solar water heating system is widely applied by all sectors of society because of its safety, health and environmental protection. To better improve the solar water heating system with professional monitoring of high degree of automation, convenience, simple maintenance, the remote control for the solar water heating system based on GSM is put forward, we proceed with the whole scheme design, and the hardware system and software system are also worked out. It proves by practice that the control system has some advantages of safe reliability, low design cost, automatic operation, data collection and analysis for water and electricity
UT WOS:000348561500108
ER

PT J
AU Lin, CH
   Xu, Y
   Yi, ZK
   Tu, ZH
AF Lin, Chenhao
   Xu, Ying
   Yi, Zhongkai
   Tu, Zhenghong
TI Energy Management for Rural Microgrid With Inaccurate Equipment
   Parameters: A KAN-Based Deep Reinforcement Learning Method
DE Microgrids; Irrigation; Energy management; Fluctuations; Robustness;
   Batteries; Training; Hydrogen; Electricity; Rural areas; Deep
   reinforcement learning; Rural microgrid system; irrigation system; deep
   reinforcement learning; Kolmogorov-Arnold network; inaccurate equipment
   parameters
ID SYSTEM; STORAGE
AB During the agricultural season, the proportion of irrigation load in rural microgrid increases rapidly. However, the energy can hardly be managed effectively due to the surge in irrigation load, rapid fluctuations of renewable energy, and inaccurate electrical parameters of aging equipment. In this article, an energy management model for rural microgrid including irrigation, hydrogen, electric heating, and power systems is proposed. Further, formidable challenges arise from inaccurate water-electricity conversion coefficient of water pump and non-convex dynamic efficiency function of hydrogen energy storage system. A deep reinforcement learning (DRL) method is proposed incorporating a Kolmogorov-Arnold network (KAN) structure and a two-stage implementation deployment method, which maintains robustness against discrepancies between the controlled training environment and the dynamic application scenario. The results of simulation experiments demonstrate adaptability and robustness of the KAN-based method in handling deviations of equipment parameters. The effectiveness and superiority of KAN-based DRL approach are validated through a comparative analysis with the state-of-the-art algorithms.
UT WOS:001600777600047
ER

PT J
AU Ghiasvand, F
   Babaei, AA
   Yazdani, M
   Birgani, YT
AF Ghiasvand, Fatemeh
   Babaei, Ali Akbar
   Yazdani, Mohsen
   Birgani, Yaser Tahmasebi
TI Spatial modeling of environmental vulnerability in the biggest river in
   Iran using geographical information systems
DE Basin; Environmental vulnerability; Geographical information systems;
   Karoon; River
ID RESPONSE-SURFACE METHODOLOGY; BACILLUS-SUBTILIS SPORES; WATER-QUALITY;
   KAROON RIVER; KHUZESTAN PROVINCE; CLIMATE-CHANGE; HEAVY-METALS;
   MANAGEMENT; URBANIZATION; INACTIVATION
AB Background and Purpose The Karoon River, located in southwest Iran, has always been considered as an important water source for people in the southward areas. Khuzestan Province is one of the strategic provinces of Iran thus the development of this province is significantly affected by the water pollution of the Karoon River system. Therefore, the current study aims to assess the environmental vulnerability of the Karoon River as well as preparing a classified map of its vulnerabilities using the fuzzy logic method via the geographical information systems (GIS). Methods In this study, the required data were gathered from the Water and Electricity Organization of Khuzestan Province. Afterward, the primary maps were created by converting the map of the study origin into a raster format. Then, fuzzy membership was performed by placing the digits in the range of zero and one using the fuzzy membership function. The primary maps were mixed, and finally, the risk map was prepared by applying the fuzzy overly function. Results According to the results, a clear trend of water quality deterioration exists since water moves from upstream to downstream areas. The ecological vulnerability of the Karoon basin is mostly located at a low-level (78.05 %) rank. The vulnerable areas were ranked extremely high, high, medium, and low as 2.09, 8.09, 12.08, and 78.05, respectively. Conclusions Considering that 22 % of the Karoon River drainage basin in Khuzestan province is considered to have a medium to extremely high risk range, it is mandatory for the authorities to take precautions to prevent the entry of polluting sources into this precious river.
UT WOS:000657397100088
ER

PT J
AU Liang, Q
   Li, QK
   Cao, XB
   Ai, WX
   Chang, Z
   Pan, YD
   Shao, J
AF Liang, Qiao
   Li, Quankun
   Cao, Xuebo
   Ai, Wenxiang
   Chang, Zheng
   Pan, Yangdan
   Shao, Jie
TI A Water-Electricity Co-Generator for Solar-Driven Steam Production and
   Full-Day Electricity Output via Harvesting Autogenous Salinity Power
DE capacitive mixing; salinity power; solar evaporation; water-electricity
   co-generation
ID GRADIENT ENERGY RECOVERY; CONCENTRATION FLOW CELLS; ELECTRODES;
   EXTRACTION
AB The ocean holds 97% of the Earth's water and receives 60-petawatt solar radiation each year. A multiple-effect utilization of vast ocean resources and energy still faces significant challenges. Here, we demonstrate a water-electricity co-generation strategy for multiple energy conversion and full-day electricity output. The co-generator is fabricated by mixing an entropy battery (MEB) and a multi-channel solar evaporator. The resultant coupled system can evaporate seawater at a rate of around 1.37 kg m-2 h-1 and elevate the salinity to 4.8 mol L-1 from an initial 0.5 mol L-1 under 1 sun condition. The autogenous salinity power is concurrently converted to electricity by MEB. Uniquely, after stopping the illumination and switching the hypersaline solution to fresh seawater, it leads to an inverted salinity power for MEB to discharge and generate electricity again. Such a strategy enables the system to deliver an average power density of 2.9 W m-2 and energy density of 229.7 kJ m-2 a day, far superior to existing MEB. Moreover, it indicates that blue energy can be harvested on the sea, not limited to certain river-sea junctures. With further optimization of electrode materials, it is promising to consume the electricity via on-site seawater electrolysis, achieving up-conversion of low-grade blue energy to green hydrogen.
UT WOS:001785423800001
ER

PT C
AU Wang, Y
   Zeng, B
   Wang, JY
   Liu, ZY
AF Wang, Yuan
   Zeng, Bo
   Wang, Jiayu
   Liu, Ziyang
GP IEEE
TI Integrated Planning of Data Centers and Coupled Electricity-water
   Systems with Renewable Energy for Low-carbon Goals
DE data centers; renewable energy; distributionally robust optimization;
   planning
AB Data centers, as an emerging load with high energy and water consumption, contribute indirectly to significant carbon emissions. To align with national low-carbon goals and promote sustainable resource use, a joint planning strategy for data centers, distribution networks, and water supply networks is proposed, considering distributed renewable energy integration and carbon trading markets. The proposed strategy is solved using a two-stage distributionally robust optimization approach, balancing system economy, low-carbon performance, and robustness. Alternating optimization is used for binary variables in the lower-level problem. A case studies validate the method's effectiveness.
UT WOS:001799473100068
ER

PT J
AU Zhang, YG
   Yuan, ZF
   Zhao, LF
   Liao, L
   Zhao, HX
AF Zhang, Yangang
   Yuan, Zhangfu
   Zhao, Linfei
   Liao, Liang
   Zhao, Hongxin
TI A systematic construction of water-electricity cogeneration and thermal
   membrane coupling desalination technology using the waste heat in steel
   industry
DE Utilization of waste heat; Seawater desalination; Thermal membrane
   coupling; Water-electricity cogeneration; Carbon emission reduction
ID SEAWATER DESALINATION; POWER-PLANT; DISTILLATION; OPTIMIZATION; DESIGN
AB The widespread use of fossil energy emits a large amount of carbon dioxide, leading to the greenhouse effect and global warming. The essence of reducing carbon emissions is to achieve higher-quality sustainable development. The recycling of waste heat in the iron and steel industry is of great significance to reducing carbon emissions. Aiming at the problem of insufficient utilization of gas in iron and steel industry and the development of seawater desalination industry, a water-electricity cogeneration and thermal membrane coupling technology is established. Low-temperature multi-effect distillation seawater desalination device is directly connected with steam turbine generator, which uses gas to generate electricity. After generating electricity, negative pressure exhaust at the end of steam turbine is used for seawater desalination. The thermal efficiency of the system is increased to over 80%, the waste heat is effectively utilized, and the carbon emission in the thermal desalination process is reduced. At the same time, the high-efficiency removal and resource utilization of salt in concentrated seawater are realized. The recovery ratio of freshwater is over 55%, the salt content of freshwater is below 500 mg/L, and the salt content of seawater concentrated by membrane method can reach 79,450 mg/L. A new comprehensive utilization and recycling system of seawater has been constructed to realize efficient recycling of energy resources and promote the development process of carbon emission reduction.
UT WOS:000833517600002
ER

PT C
AU Maheshwari, Z
   Ramakumar, R
AF Maheshwari, Zeel
   Ramakumar, R.
GP IEEE
TI An Approach for Resilience Assessment of SIRES
DE Integrated Renewable System; Resilience; Energization; Rural Communities
ID SYSTEMS
AB In recent years, experiences with natural disasters and climate-change driven extreme weather events happening all around the globe have challenged researchers and scientists to address the need for "resilience" in all systems and networks. While urban areas of developed countries have established reliable definitions of resilience, there is no clear method to assess resilience in rural areas. Moreover, over one billion people do not have access to basic needs such as cooking, safe water and electricity. Smart Integrated Renewable Energy System (SIRES) was proposed to provide basic needs to remote rural areas in an effective and sustainable manner. In this paper, an approach to assess the resilience of SIRES is proposed. Primary differences between reliability and resilience are also discussed.
UT WOS:000833541600015
ER

PT J
AU Chen, YD
   Zhou, ZP
   Yuan, JF
AF Chen, Yudi
   Zhou, Zhipeng
   Yuan, Jingfeng
TI Human-Centered Infrastructure Restoration: An Integrated Framework for
   Demand Estimation and Resource Allocation
ID NETWORK DESIGN; SYSTEMS; PERFORMANCE; MODEL
AB Given the critical importance of lifeline infrastructures in maintaining society functioning, the main objective of infrastructure restorations following disasters is to satisfy community demand in a rapid and effective manner. In existing literature, community demand on infrastructure services is often assumed to remain constant before and after disasters, which might lead to a mismatch between restored infrastructure serviceability and actual community demand. To address this gap, this study proposes an integrated demand-oriented infrastructure restoration framework. The integrated framework is designed to (1) estimate community demand using a Bayesian-based method, allowing for the integration of multiple information sources and the rapid updating of demands as new data becomes available; (2) develop a demand-oriented optimization model that prioritizes resource allocation to the infrastructure components serving communities with higher levels of demand; and (3) create a reliable solution method using an iterative process to accommodate the dynamics of disaster situations, complemented by a hybrid simulation-optimization approach to manage demand uncertainty. For illustrative purposes, the restoration of interdependent power and water infrastructure networks in Shelby County, TN, is studied. The results demonstrate that the proposed framework significantly improves the satisfaction of community demand, and meanwhile decreases the penalty costs associated with unmet demands. Beyond post-disaster restoration, the framework is capable of assisting decision-makers in simulating various disaster scenarios, enabling more community-centered resilience planning.
UT WOS:001649014100001
ER

PT C
AU Magoua, JJ
   Wang, F
   Li, N
AF Magoua, Joseph Jonathan
   Wang, Fei
   Li, Nan
BE Jazizadeh, F
   Shealy, T
   Garvin, MJ
TI Incorporating the Human Factor in Modeling Interdependent Infrastructure
   Systems
AB The behavior of critical infrastructure systems (CISs) greatly depends on the performance and reliability of the human agents that interact with the CISs. To accurately assess and predict the behavior of interdependent CISs, interdependent CISs models must not only consider the heterogeneities and interdependencies of the systems, but also the human factor. Previous studies focused on developing interdependent CISs models that only consider the technical factor. In this study, a framework for incorporating the human factor in the modeling of interdependent CISs is proposed, one that can integrate the knowledge, data, and simulation tools of CISs and humans from various domains. Domain-specific CIS models and human performance models are co-simulated to capture systemic heterogeneities and the complex dynamic system-system and human-system interactions. A case study of two interdependent power system and water system is presented to reveal the influence of considering the human factors on the behavior and performance of interdependent CISs.
UT WOS:000776637300036
ER

PT J
AU Prechtl, MHG
   Alegria, ECBA
   Rocha, HB
   Justino, E
   Gomes, JF
   Puna, JF
AF Prechtl, Martin H. G.
   Alegria, Elisabete C. B. A.
   Rocha, Helena Belchior
   Justino, Elsa
   Gomes, Joao F.
   Puna, Jaime F.
TI Boundaries for a global resilient energy transition
ID STORAGE SYSTEM; TECHNOLOGIES; PERSPECTIVES
AB This article discusses the challenges to a resilient energy transition. The power shortage in the Iberian Peninsula in 2025 illustrates the limitations of a resilient energy sector. To the best of our knowledge, the reason for the collapse of the Spanish electric grid has not been identified as a single system failure but was likely caused by a cascade of events that led to the instability of the grid (frequency) and the shutdown. Fortunately, the grid was restored within a day. A prolonged shortage could have had a massive impact, compromising the food supply, fresh-water supply and critical infrastructure (i.e. hospitals) for 60 million citizens since off-grid energy storage only covers short periods. Broader implementation of large energy storage could have been the key to stabilising the electric grids and preventing a shutdown. Hydrogen is promising for large energy storage to improve the safe operation/implementation of renewable energies/UNSDG7 (PV/solar/wind/hydropower) and may prevent a variation in power supply and grid stability. Considering the required scale-up for the infrastructure (UNSDG9 + 12) along with the essential role of academia/education (UNSDG4) as the fundamental keys for sustainability, these factors are limiting, and the requirements to enable a fast energy transition are alarming. Data on energy consumption and GHG emissions discussed here are exemplary for selected European countries (France/Germany/Portugal/Spain/Sweden/UK) and neighbouring Morocco/Africa. The countries' strategies for the energy transition take into account different geographical/topological/natural/climatic limitations and opportunities. We have learnt from this blackout and previous events that the number and capacities/connectivity to neighbouring countries are crucial for blackout prevention and that implemented energy storage is important to stabilise the electric grid but remains insufficient for net-zero based on renewable energies. Islands, countries with large coastal regions or isolated countries (mountains) with limited connectivity to neighbouring grids are more sensitive to blackouts. National strategies need to consider the societal/industrial requirements to enable a net-zero transition. The assessment targets defossilisation for energy supply/transport, the requirements for the energy sector and large energy storage facilities (i.e. H2 storage) and national infrastructures for its realisation. The goal of net-zero-by-2050 is challenged by natural resources, and delays are due to the limited infrastructure/workforce in the STEM field provided by the respective national education and academic sectors.
UT WOS:001639445400001
ER

PT J
AU Offutt, A
AF Offutt, Alyssa
TI Mixing waters: stakeholder influence in transboundary water conflict and
   cooperation
DE Transboundary lakes; water conflict; water cooperation; stakeholder
   influence; multi-scalar analysis
ID LAKE; VULNERABILITY; MANAGEMENT; GOVERNANCE; QUALITY; FRAMEWORK;
   JUSTICE; BASIN
AB Understanding the factors that contribute to transboundary water conflict and cooperation is critical to improve governance and protect water resources. State interactions are shaped by multiple pressures and multi-scalar actors. This research assesses how local stakeholders influence the state through an analysis of power, water quality-related vulnerability and risk. Based on the findings, local stakeholders directly and indirectly support high-intensity cooperation over transboundary lakes and can foster low-intensity conflict to enable a greater representation of needs. Local actors also mutually influence state and international processes causing a multi-scalar impact and response to the states' transboundary water quality interactions.
UT WOS:000800221500001
ER

PT J
AU Modabber, HV
   Manesh, MHK
AF Modabber, H. Vazini
   Manesh, M. H. Khoshgoftar
TI 4E dynamic analysis of a water-power cogeneration plant integrated with
   solar parabolic trough collector and absorption chiller
DE MEDTVC desalination; RO desalination; Combined cycle power plant; Exergy
   analysis; Exergoeconomic analysis; Exergoenvironmental analysis; Solar
   energy; Dynamic simulation
ID DUAL-PURPOSE PLANT; RENEWABLE ENERGY; THERMOECONOMIC ANALYSIS;
   PERFORMANCE EVALUATION; SEAWATER DESALINATION; GAS-TURBINE; SYSTEM;
   CYCLE; OPTIMIZATION; SIMULATION
AB This paper attempts to improve a power-water cogeneration system by combining the existing plant with solar and inlet air cooling systems. The investigations were performed under the climatic conditions of Qeshm Island in Iran. In this regard, the Qeshm power-water cogeneration plant is considered to be improved. This plant consists of two gas turbine units, each with the nominal capacity of 25 megawatts in ISO conditions, two heat recovery steam generators (HRSG), and four MED-TVC desalination policies.
   Absorption chillier for inlet air cooling of a compressor and parabolic trough collector for solar heating has been considered to integrate with the existing unit. In this regard, different scenarios were examined in each hour in a year. Furthermore, dynamic energy, exergy, exergoeconomic, and exergoenvironmental analyses (4E) have been performed for the base case and proposed scenarios hourly in a year. The high accuracy of the simulation results was confirmed in Thermoflex software and plant data. With the desired changes, the thermal efficiency reaches 68%, and the exergy efficiency increases to about 50%. The economic and environmental shows that the base case's environmental impacts have been reduced by the use of inlet air cooling system and solar heating. Furthermore, dynamic transient 4E evaluations in each hour in a year were determined.
UT WOS:000621598900014
ER

PT C
AU Mandili, MA
   Shubaili, AAM
   Depierreux, F
   Cole, S
AF Mandili, M. A.
   Shubaili, A. A. M.
   Depierreux, Francois
   Cole, Stijn
GP IEEE
TI Planning Criteria Benchmarking and Voltage Stability Study for Marafiq's
   Yanbu Network
DE Benchmarking; Fault induced delayed voltage recovery (FIDVR); Motor
   stalling; Planning criteria; Voltage stability
AB Due to increasing power requirements of the growing industrial sectors, the Power and Water Utility Company for Jubail and Yanbu (Marafiq) foresees a significant load increase in its network, which consequently might impact the voltage stability.
   Prior to the reinforcement of the system with additional means of reactive power compensation, an international benchmarking covering Saudi Arabia and other systems presenting similar characteristics was undertaken to update the voltage planning criteria, including the definition of the incidents that the system must withstand without activating defence schemes and/or provoking a supply interruption. Particular attention was brought to the way important share of rotating load is considered in the criteria.
   Then, the Voltage Stability study was performed, considering the criteria retained, to assess the reinforcements needed in Marafiq Yanbu's Power System to reach the desired level of robustness.
   In the end, the added value of these reinforcements was discussed and their costs compared.
UT WOS:000465417100084
ER

PT J
AU Blanton, A
   Ewane, EB
   McTavish, F
   Watt, MS
   Rogers, K
   Daneil, R
   Vizcaino, I
   Gomez, AN
   Arachchige, PSP
   King, SAL
   Galgamuwa, GAP
   Peñaranda, MLP
   al-Musawi, L
   Montenegro, JF
   Broadbent, EN
   Zambrano, AMA
   Hudak, AT
   Swangjang, K
   Valasquez-Camacho, LF
   Vorenberg, JHP
   Srinivasan, S
   Abdullah, MM
   Charabi, YAR
   Jaafar, WSWM
   Musa, F
   Sidik, F
   Al-Awadhi, T
   Ali, T
   Doaemo, W
   Mohan, M
AF Blanton, Austin
   Ewane, Ewane Basil
   McTavish, Freddie
   Watt, Michael S.
   Rogers, Kerrylee
   Daneil, Redeat
   Vizcaino, Irene
   Gomez, Ana Novo
   Arachchige, Pavithra S. Pitumpe
   King, Shalini A. L.
   Galgamuwa, G. A. Pabodha
   Penaranda, Martha Lucia Palacios
   al-Musawi, Layla
   Montenegro, Jorge F.
   Broadbent, Eben North
   Zambrano, Angelica Maria Almeyda
   Hudak, Andrew T.
   Swangjang, Kanokporn
   Valasquez-Camacho, Luisa Fernanda
   Vorenberg, Jaime Hening Polania
   Srinivasan, Shruthi
   Abdullah, Meshal M.
   Charabi, Yassine A. R.
   Jaafar, Wan Shafrina Wan Mohd
   Musa, Fazilah
   Sidik, Frida
   Al-Awadhi, Talal
   Ali, Tarig
   Doaemo, Willie
   Mohan, Midhun
TI Ecotourism and mangrove conservation in Southeast Asia: Current trends
   and perspectives
DE Ecotourism activities; Mangrove ecotourism sites; Ecotourism impacts on
   mangroves; Mangrove ecosystem services; Mangrove mapping; Conservation
   and restoration initiatives
ID FORESTS; ISLAND; INSIGHTS; INTENT; INDEX; AREA
AB Mangroves in Southeast Asia provide numerous supporting, provisioning, regulating, and cultural services that are crucial to the environment and local livelihoods since they support biodiversity conservation and climate change resilience. However, Southeast Asia mangroves face deforestation threats from the expansion of commercial aquaculture, agriculture, and urban development, along with climate change-related natural processes. Ecotourism has gained prominence as a financial incentive tool to support mangrove conservation and restoration. Through a systematic literature review approach, we examined the relationships between ecotourism and mangrove conservation in Southeast Asia based on scientific papers published from 2010 to 2022. Most of the studies were reported in Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Thailand, and Vietnam, respectively, which were associated with the highest number of vibrant mangrove ecotourism sites and largest mangrove areas compared to the other countries of Southeast Asia. Mangrove-related ecotourism activities in the above countries mainly include boat tours, bird and wildlife watching, mangrove planting, kayaking, eating seafood, and snorkeling. The economic benefits, such as an increase in income associated with mangrove ecotourism, have stimulated infrastructural development in ecotourism destinations. Local communities benefited from increased access to social amenities such as clean water, electricity, transportation networks, schools, and health services that are intended to make destinations more attractive to tourists. Economic benefits from mangrove ecotourism motivated the implementation of several community-based mangrove conservation and restoration initiatives, which attracted international financial incentives and public-private partnerships. Since mangroves are mostly located on the land occupied by indigenous people and local communities, ensuring respect for their land rights and equity in economic benefit sharing may increase their intrinsic motivation and participation in mangrove restoration and conservation initiatives. Remote sensing tools for mangrove monitoring, evaluation, and reporting, and integrated education and awareness campaigns can ensure the long-term conservation of mangroves while sustaining ecotourism 's economic infrastructure and social amenities benefits.
UT WOS:001268706200001
ER

PT C
AU Krishan, TT
   Alkhawaldeh, RS
   Alkhawaldeh, SM
AF Krishan, Tareq T.
   Alkhawaldeh, Rami S.
   Alkhawaldeh, Samar M.
BE Arai, K
TI Futurism Trends in IoT Towards Sensible Smart Cities
DE Digital transformation; Photonic sensing; Sensing technology;
   Sustainability informatics
AB Adaptive pervasive computing will embody ambient intelligence and promote a pivotal role in enabling smart cities initiatives. This research emphasizes leveraging digital viability to catalyze local government digital services, focusing on resilient consumer Internet of Things (IoT) solutions to foster digital prosperity within communities. The scalability of IoT-based smart city initiatives presents significant scientific and engineering challenges, necessitating innovative efforts from academia and industrial sectors to develop adaptive, scalable, and reliable frameworks for addressing these needs. The proposed study aims to introduce Smart Sensing Meters for Electricity and Water Services Providers (SSMEWP), by a novel framework for remotely monitoring utilities consumption using intelligent electricity and water meters. SSMEWP integrates GPS infrastructure and links to a centralized smart government data center, providing citizens with monthly consumption bills via mobile Apps. SSMEWP uniquely adopts cutting-edge microfluidics-based smart sensing meters to optimize electricity and water flow sense, reduce consumption costs, and offer an adaptive micro-FinTech approach for seamless monthly payments. It also empowers contactless services, enhancing user convenience and operational efficiency. In addition to electricity and water sensing management, this study tackles environmental monitoring through smart eco-sensing technologies. These systems assess waste fill levels in residential containers, enabling optimized waste collection routes and reducing traffic congestion caused by inefficient garbage truck movements. The solutions obtained contribute to reducing carbon footprints, operational expenses, and fiscal challenges associated with traditional smart meters. So, our study underscores the transformative potential of ambient intelligence in elevating urban service management and fostering sustainability in smart cities.
UT WOS:001842255300031
ER

PT C
AU Foreman, JC
   Pacheco, FE
AF Foreman, James Christopher
   Pacheco, Franklin E.
GP IEEE
TI Aggregation Architecture for Data Reduction and Privacy in Advanced
   Metering Infrastructure
DE Advanced Metering Infrastructure; Aggregation; Architecture; Big Data;
   Privacy
AB Advanced Metering Infrastructure (AMI) have rapidly become a topic of international interest as governments have sponsored their deployment for the purposes of utility service reliability and efficiency, e.g., water and electricity conservation. Two problems plague such deployments. First is the protection of consumer privacy. Second is the problem of huge amounts of data from such deployments. A new architecture is proposed to address these problems through the use of Aggregators, which incorporate temporary data buffering and the modularization of utility grid analysis. These Aggregators are used to deliver anonymized summary data to the central utility while preserving billing and automated connection services.
UT WOS:000451380200024
ER

PT J
AU Zhou, L
   Wang, XY
   Li, JW
   Xu, CY
   Du, W
   Peth, S
   Hu, FN
AF Zhou, Lin
   Wang, Xinyu
   Li, Jiangwen
   Xu, Chenyang
   Du, Wei
   Peth, Stephan
   Hu, Feinan
TI Rheological evaluation of soil microstructure stability during
   vegetation restoration on the Loess Plateau of China
DE Vegetation restoration; Rheology; Amplitude sweep tests; Soil organic
   carbon; Soil structural stability
ID ORGANIC-MATTER FRACTIONS; AGGREGATE STABILITY; PHYSICAL-PROPERTIES;
   CARBON; CHRONOSEQUENCE; MANAGEMENT; RHEOMETRY; EROSION; ENERGY; CLAY
AB Vegetation restoration is an effective measure to improve soil structure stability and thus decrease soil erosion. However, fewer studies have examined the effect of vegetation restoration on the mechanical stability of soil structure at the micro-scale level. In this study, we collected soil samples across a restoration chronosequence spanning 160 years (from unrestored farmland to mature arbor forests). The soil microstructure stability derived from rheological parameters (shear strength and viscoelasticity) was investigated using a compact modular rheometer. Our results showed that restoration time had a positive effect on shear strength and then increased soil microstructure stability. With increasing restoration time, soil shear strength and elasticity generally improved across vegetation types. Forests exhibited a non-linear trend, with strength peaking at 110 years before declining in older stands (130-160 years). Correspondingly, the viscoelastic parameters (e.g., gamma YP , Iz) also peaked at 110 years, indicating that soil structure is most stable and deformation resistance is greatest during this phase. The partial least squares path modeling revealed that increases in organic carbon and divalent cation contents were the main reason contributing to the enhancement of soil microstructural stability. In summary, the vegetation restoration process increased organic carbon and divalent cation content, thereby enhancing soil shear strength and elasticity, which subsequently stabilized the soil microstructure. This work provides important indicators for understanding the evolution of soil microstructure during vegetation restoration and supports a theoretical basis for the development of soil structure improvement and ecological restoration techniques suitable for loess derived soils. (c) 2026 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY
UT WOS:001838729700001
ER

PT C
AU Lootah, HE
   Abdulqader, MA
   Sharif, HIM
   El Helwe, MA
   Murphy, DJ
AF Lootah, Hussain Essa
   Abdulqader, Maryam Ali
   Sharif, Haifa Ismail Mohammad
   El Helwe, Mariam Abdulrahman
   Murphy, Damian Joseph
GP IEEE
TI Lean Transformation in Power Transmission Maintenance
DE Lean Maintenance; Transmission Systems; Continuous Improvement; Power
   Utilities; Asset Management
AB Lean principles, though rooted in manufacturing, have shown growing relevance across service and infrastructure sectors, including power transmission. This paper presents Dubai Electricity and Water Authority's (DEWA) experience in adopting Lean methodologies to optimize maintenance processes in its Transmission Power Division. Through a structured transformation program, the division reduced waste, improved asset reliability, and fostered a sustainable culture of continuous improvement. A practical Lean Maintenance Transformation Framework is introduced, demonstrating how Lean can be localized to a utility context. Quantitative results-including streamlining 16 maintenance processes, reduction of 1500 kg of CO2 emissions, and cost savings of 1,437,607 AED-highlight the tangible value achieved.
UT WOS:001708847900097
ER

PT J
AU Sun, M
   Qin, MH
   Wang, C
   Weng, GM
   Huo, MX
   Taylor, AD
   Qu, JH
   Elimelech, M
AF Sun, Meng
   Qin, Mohan
   Wang, Chi
   Weng, Guoming
   Huo, Mingxin
   Taylor, Andre D.
   Qu, Jiuhui
   Elimelech, Menachem
TI Electrochemical-Osmotic Process for Simultaneous Recovery of Electric
   Energy, Water, and Metals from Wastewater
ID MICROBIAL FUEL-CELLS; THIN-FILM COMPOSITE; AQUEOUS-SOLUTIONS; OSMOSIS;
   PERFORMANCE; GENERATION; REMOVAL; TECHNOLOGIES; REDUCTION; MEMBRANE
AB A highly-efficient, autonomous electrochemical-osmotic system (EOS) is developed for simultaneous recovery of electric energy, water, and metals from wastewater. We demonstrate that the system can generate a maximum electric power density of 10.5 W m(-2) using a spontaneous Fe/Cu2+ galvanic cell, while simultaneously achieving copper recovery from wastewater. With an osmotic pressure difference generated by the deployed electrochemical reactions, water is osmotically extracted from the feed solution with the EOS at a water flux of 5.1 L m(-2) h(-1). A scaled-up EOS realizes a power density of 105.8 W per m(-3) of treated water to light an LED over 24 h while also enhancing water extraction and metal recovery. The modularized EOS obtains ultrahigh (>97.5%) Faradaic efficiencies under variable operating conditions, showing excellent system stability. The EOS is also versatile: it can recover Au, Ag, and Hg from wastewaters with simultaneous electricity and water coproduction. Our study demonstrates a promising pathway for realizing multi-resource recycling from wastewater by coupling electrochemical and osmosis-driven processes.
UT WOS:000548584900072
ER

PT C
AU Foster, C
AF Foster, Colin
GP IEEE
TI Earthquake Performance of Telecommunications Infrastructure in
   Christchurch 2010/2011
DE Earthquake; Infrastructure performance; Telephone services; Restoration
   management; Power systems; Permanent restoration
AB Christchurch (population 350,000) New Zealand has suffered from three significant earthquakes in the last 12 months
   September 4 2010 - magnitude 7.1 (no fatalities)
   February 22 2011 - magnitude 6.3 (182 fatalities)
   June 13 2011 - magnitude 6.3 (no fatalities)
   Each earthquake had different centres and shaking characteristics.
   Telecom is the main provider of Fixed Line services in New Zealand. It also operates Mobile, Broadband, Data and other telecommunications services. Chorus is the business within Telecom that owns and operates the Access part of that network (cables and contractors that provision customer equipment) and operates the Buildings portfolio (including the power equipment) that houses the telecommunications equipment.
   This paper discusses the impact the earthquakes had on the Telecom network, the issues in maintaining and restoring services and some of the permanent fixes required to its infrastructure.
   The Telecom NZ core network continued to operate both through and after each event and the many aftershocks. There was call overloading issues on both the PSTN and Mobile networks, but much more significantly on the February 22 event that coincided with the mid-day lunch break. After the immediate aftermath panic, calling levels returned to manageable levels.
   Telephone exchange buildings, mobile cell towers and roadside access cabinets suffered minimal damage, compared to the very significant damage to other buildings in the CBD and eastern suburbs. All equipment (network, power and air conditioning) had been seismically supported and suffered no damage.
   Telecommunications power systems continued to operate as designed. There was widespread damage to the public power systems and in some areas it was more than a month following the February event before restoration was achieved.
   Most exchanges in the affected areas had engine alternators to support equipment loads. Mobil Cell Tower systems had batteries that would last greater than two hours and Access Cabinets (primarily installed to provide enhanced broadband services) had batteries to last greater than five hours.
   It was recognised from earlier events that the Mobile network would be the prime mode of telecommunications (for both restoration and normal communications); so many sites had been provisioned to be easily connected to portable engine alternators. Immediate restoration efforts were targeted at locating a sufficient number of suitably sized engine alternators, to keep these sites operational. Most had fibre connections back to a telephone exchange. Few cell sites failed. The next priority was refuelling on a regular basis.
   Many more issues were identified and managed through as efforts were made to restore some form of normality to the running of the city. Resources were available locally to manage most of the day to day restoration efforts but were significantly boosted by Chorus people operating remotely and some who travelled to the city to relieve the permanent residents as the event restoration stretched on.
   Other significant issues that became apparent were largely dependant on other infrastructure services to provide permanent solutions. These included the power system, water supply (for the cooling towers of the central exchange that formed part of the national network architecture) and access through damaged streets to some network nodes (mainly Mobile sites). The paper outlines details of both temporary and permanent restoration solutions.
UT WOS:000298863700025
ER

PT J
AU Xiao, S
   Kolb, J
   Kono, S
   Katsuki, S
   Joshi, RP
   Laroussi, M
   Schoenbach, KH
AF Xiao, S
   Kolb, J
   Kono, S
   Katsuki, S
   Joshi, RP
   Laroussi, M
   Schoenbach, KH
TI High power water switches: Postbreakdown phenomena and dielectric
   recovery
DE water; electrical breakdown; pulsed power switching; shock-waves;
   dielectric recovery
ID ELECTRICAL BREAKDOWN; LIQUID
AB The physical processes following the electrical breakdown of water between planar and hemispherical electrodes separated by a sub-millimeter gap have been studied using electrical and optical diagnostics. The expanding plasma column after breakdown generates first shockwaves and at a later stage a vapor bubble which expands for about 200 mus and then decays with a time constant of 1 ms. The bubble decay time determines the dielectric recovery of the switch as has been shown with pulse-probe experiments.
UT WOS:000223577100008
ER

PT C
AU Samé, A
   Leyli-Abadi, M
AF Same, Allou
   Leyli-Abadi, Milad
BE U, LH
   Lauw, HW
TI Change Point Detection in Periodic Panel Data Using a
   Mixture-Model-Based Approach
DE Change detection; Segmentation-clustering; Robust mixture model;
   Incremental learning; Smart grid
ID MAXIMUM-LIKELIHOOD-ESTIMATION; SPARSE
AB This paper describes a novel method for common change detection in panel data emanating from smart electricity and water networks. The proposed method relies on a representation of the data by classes whose probabilities of occurrence evolve over time. This dynamics is assumed to be piecewise periodic due to the cyclic nature of the studied data, which allows the detection of change points. Our strategy is based on a hierarchical mixture of t-distributions which entails some robustness properties. The parameter estimation is performed using an incremental strategy, which has the advantage to allow the processing of large datasets. The experiments carried out on realistic data showed the full relevance of the proposed method.
UT WOS:000714944700013
ER

PT C
AU Gómez, JF
   González, V
   Barberá, L
   Crespo, A
AF Gomez, J. F.
   Gonzalez, V.
   Barbera, Luis
   Crespo, A.
BE Berenguer, C
   Grall, A
   Soares, CG
TI Functional and economic obsolescence of assets in network utilities
   according to different environmental factors
ID REPAIRABLE SYSTEMS; RELIABILITY
AB Maintenance in Network Utilities, such as distribution companies of water, electricity, gas, telecommunications, etc, customer oriented organizations, has to take into consideration the reliability of the assets and the adaptation of their analysis to changes among different areas of network distribution. The same type of equipment, due to the hierarchical architecture of the network, could operate under - different environmental conditions in dissimilar areas depending on, for example, temperature or humidity. These variations on the operating conditions could accelerate the degradation of the asset, modifying the estimation of its reliability and end of life. This accelerated deterioration of the asset is called "obsolescence" and its implications have to be evaluated in terms of costs, trying to detect this process to minimize the failures and the error in decisions about repairing or substituting the asset. Then, the analysis of obsolescence, from a dependability scope, could be used to determine the network conservation in the different areas, with the aim of understanding the effects of the variation of the environmental factors about the functionality and the life cycle cost of the assets.
UT WOS:000392426501050
ER

PT J
AU Brissaud, F
AF Brissaud, Florent
TI Reliability, Maintenance, and Safety of Power-to-Hydrogen: Lessons
   Learned from an Industrial Demonstrator
DE Power-to-Gas; hydrogen; electrolysis; reliability; maintenance; safety
ID GAS; ELECTROLYSIS
AB Power-to-Gas is the process by which electrical energy is converted into chemical energy in gaseous form. It conventionally involves an electrolysis stage, producing hydrogen (Power-to-Hydrogen) from electricity and water. Because it relies on emerging technologies, the management of reliability, maintenance, and safety of these systems must address specific issues that are not yet well documented. Jupiter 1000 is an industrial demonstrator of Power-to-Gas, commissioned in 2019 by GRTgaz, which became NaTran in 2025. One of the objectives of the project is to demonstrate the feasibility of this type of process and to share initial feedback to support the development of the industrial Power-to-Gas sector. This paper presents the main lessons learned and results from Jupiter 1000 on reliability, maintenance, and safety for Power-to-Hydrogen installations. The experience gained from this demonstrator revealed that reliability is mainly affected by failures in systems such as compression, storage, and auxiliaries rather than in the electrolysers. Maintenance is challenged by limited availability of hydrogen-adapted equipment and skilled personnel, which can result in extended downtimes. Safety requires advanced leak detection, adapted materials, and comprehensive risk analyses, especially for hydrogen-specific hazards. These findings highlight five priorities for the sector: strengthening the industrial supply chain, improving equipment reliability, developing specialized risk management expertise, advancing safety solutions, and continuing R&D on hazardous phenomena and monitoring.
UT WOS:001634343500001
ER

PT J
AU Liu, H
   Tatano, H
   Kajitani, Y
   Yang, YS
AF Liu, Huan
   Tatano, Hirokazu
   Kajitani, Yoshio
   Yang, Yongsheng
TI Analysis of the influencing factors on industrial resilience to flood
   disasters using a semi-markov recovery model: A case study of the Heavy
   Rain Event of July 2018 in Japan
DE Recovery curves; Flood disasters; Industrial sectors; Semi-markov model;
   Infrastructure disruption impact
ID INFRASTRUCTURE; DISRUPTION; SIMULATION; FRAMEWORK; IMPACTS; SYSTEMS
AB Industrial sectors are progressively threatened by the risk associated with flood disasters. They are also increasingly aware that building resilience is critical for their continuity, competitiveness, and survival. However, empirical evidence of industrial resilience to flood disasters is rarely provided, especially for the impact of infrastructure disruptions, resourcefulness, and other socioeconomic factors on industry resilience. Hence, this study presents a parametric semi-Markov recovery model to quantitatively estimate the business recovery rate, which is conditional on initial damage and can evaluate the recovery of industrial sectors to flood disasters. Additionally, the susceptibility of business resilience to inundation depth, deposited sediment, lifeline services (i.e., electricity, water, gas), and transportation were investigated by incorporating these covariates into the recovery function. The proposed model was applied to a case study of the Heavy Rain Event of July 2018 in Japan. The recovery data from 535 individual businesses were analyzed, revealing an estimated average production capacity loss rate of 7.16% and 6.13% in manufacturing and non-manufacturing sectors, respectively. By comparing the PCLR under different damage scenarios, results indicate that inundation depth and lifeline supply status significantly affect total losses. Analyzing the dynamic resilience of firms could help calculate the production capacity losses caused by flood disasters. It can also provide empirical evidence for decision-makers and business managers to allocate reconstruction resources in the aftermath of disasters and to establish business continuity plans to avoid potential losses in the future.
UT WOS:000876455100003
ER

PT C
AU Ibrahim, M
   Najed, F
   Ateiah, A
   Suhair, A
AF Ibrahim, M
   Najed, F
   Ateiah, A
   Suhair, A
BE Wahdan, AM
   Amer, A
   Fikry, H
   Salem, A
TI Emirate of Abu Dhabi power transmission system evaluation & expansion
DE transmission expansion; critecal fault clearing time; voltage recovery;
   reactive power compensation; SVC and PSS/E
AB Fast development of Independent Water and Power Producers (IWPP) combined cycle plants to cater for Emirate of Abu Dhabi projected demand growth and. compensate the contribution of the small simple cycle gas peaking units (located near to loads and to be phased out), urge evaluating and updating the transmission system expansion plans. Phasing out the peaking units will cause negative effict on transmission capability, voltage recovery and reactive power resources.
UT WOS:000226218800190
ER

PT J
AU Falama, RZ
   Skarka, W
   Doka, SY
AF Falama, Ruben Zieba
   Skarka, Wojciech
   Doka, Serge Yamigno
TI Optimal Design and Comparative Analysis of a PV/Mini-Hydropower and a
   PV/Battery Used for Electricity and Water Supply
DE water pump; energy storage; battery; SSD; LCOE; electricity and water
   supply
ID SYSTEM; OPTIMIZATION; GENERATION; POWER
AB This work proposed an optimal design of PV-system-based water-pumped energy storage for both electricity and water supply. A case study was considered in a rural community in Cameroon. The parameters of the assessment of the system were reliability, represented in the present work by the system supply deficiency (SSD), and economic accessibility, represented by the levelized cost of energy (LCOE). The obtained results showed that for 0% SSD, the optimal configuration of the system was composed of 438 PV modules of 235 W, an immersed solar motor pump of 35 kW, a hydroelectric turbine of 51.7 kW, an upper reservoir of 2307.1 m(3), an inverter of 25.27 kW, and a total dynamic head of 88 m. The corresponding LCOE to this configuration is 0.224 USD/kWh. The economic accessibility of the designed system was evaluated by comparison with a PV-system-based battery energy storage. The optimal design configuration of the studied PV-system-based battery energy storage was a PV generator (120 PV modules of 235 W), solar motor pump (15 kW), upper reservoir (590.4 m(3)), battery capacity (351.78 kWh), inverter (25.27 kW), and total dynamic head (81 m). The corresponding LCOE to this configuration was 0.1857 USD/kWh. Although the PV-system-based battery storage appeared to be economically more cost-effective than the PV-system-based water-pumped energy storage, the sensitivity analysis revealed that there was the possibility for the PV-system-based water-pumped energy storage to be economically more profitable than the PV-system-based battery energy storage. This economic outperformance occurred when the project lifetime was a multiple of 7.5 years or when the costs of the storage components were reduced from 20% to 60%.
UT WOS:000909015500001
ER

PT C
AU Heegaard, PE
   Helvik, BE
   Trivedi, KS
   Machida, F
AF Heegaard, Poul E.
   Helvik, Bjarne E.
   Trivedi, Kishor S.
   Machida, Fumio
GP IEEE
TI Survivability as a Generalization of Recovery
AB Social infrastructure systems such as communication, transportation, power and water supply systems are now facing various types of threats including component failures, security attacks and natural disasters, etc. Whenever such undesirable events occur, it is crucial to recover the system as quickly as possible because the downtime of social infrastructure causes catastrophic consequences in the society. In the business continuity context, Recovery Time Objective (RTO) has been used as a criterion to specify the allowable maximum time to recover from system failure events. While RTO gives the requirement for system recovery time, performance degradation of infrastructure service during the recovery period is another dimension that should be taken into consideration. In this paper, we introduce survivability as a generalization of recovery behavior which can address the performance impacts during the recovery and show a survivability quantification example in a escalating and deferred repair system.
UT WOS:000380939200027
ER

PT J
AU Tsafaras, I
   Campen, JB
   de Zwart, HF
   Voogt, W
   Al Harbi, A
   Al Assaf, K
   Abdelaziz, ME
   Qaryouti, M
   Stanghellini, C
AF Tsafaras, I.
   Campen, J. B.
   de Zwart, H. F.
   Voogt, W.
   Al Harbi, A.
   Al Assaf, K.
   Abdelaziz, M. E.
   Qaryouti, M.
   Stanghellini, C.
TI Quantifying the trade-off between water and electricity for tomato
   production in arid environments
DE Closed greenhouse; Product water use; Water saving; Water recovery;
   Energy use
ID REVERSE-OSMOSIS; GREENHOUSE; CROP
AB Production of vegetables for fresh consumption in arid regions is usually done in greenhouses fitted with evaporative cooling, which does strain the scarce water resource in those areas so much that [lack of] water frequently becomes the limiting factor. Greenhouses fit with sufficient mechanical cooling capacity (closed/semi-closed greenhouses) not only dispose of the need for evaporative cooling, but also allow for recovery of the water transpired by the crop as condense on the mechanical cooling and dehumidification system. The purpose of this paper is to investigate the trade-off between resources (water and electricity) within a closed greenhouse and evaluate its potential as the ultimate water saving production system. After a series of 8 closed-greenhouse trials in a desert environment, in Riyadh (KSA), benchmark numbers on water and energy use of such a system were established. Thanks to the recollection of more than 80% of the water supplied to the crop, production of 1 kg of fresh tomatoes was achieved at the expense of 4.2 L of water, which is 10 times lower that the lowest reported in evaporatively cooled greenhouses and 40 times lower than commercial practice in similar weather conditions. On the other hand, the required electricity use was about 8 kWh per kg of fresh produced tomatoes. From energy point of view it is shown that using desalinated water for evaporative cooling reduces the electricity consumption of fresh tomato production to about 1 kWh.kg(-1). From economic point of view a closed greenhouse might only result in lower variable costs when 10 liters of desalinated water costs more than 1.75 kWh of electricity.
UT WOS:000830892300007
ER

PT J
AU Chahartaghi, M
   Einanlou, M
   Hashemian, SM
AF Chahartaghi, Mahmood
   Einanlou, Mehrdad
   Hashemian, Seyed Majid
TI Energy and exergy analyses of a combined cooling, heating and power
   system with prime mover of phosphoric acid fuel cell with organic
   Rankine cycle
DE Phosphoric acid fuel cell; Organic Rankine cycle; CCHP; Exergy
   efficiency; Thermal energy storage tank; Current density
ID PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS; THERMODYNAMIC ANALYSIS; STIRLING ENGINE; CCHP
   SYSTEM; OPTIMIZATION; DRIVEN; POLYGENERATION; REFRIGERATOR; GENERATION;
   RECOVERY
AB In recent years, combined generation systems have become more popular due to their advantages such as high overall efficiency, low fuel consumption, low emissions and lower operating costs. Using fuel cell as prime mover with high efficiency and low pollution can be a solution to achieve higher efficiencies in the combined generation systems.
   In this study, performance of a novel combined cooling, heating and power system or trigeneration system with phosphoric acid fuel cell along with an organic Rankine cycle is conducted. The system includes a hydrogen storage tank, a phosphoric acid fuel cell, an afterburner, an organic Rankine cycle, a thermal energy storage tank, an absorption chiller, and heat exchangers. For recovery of the waste heat of phosphoric acid fuel cell, three heat recovery systems (the organic Rankine cycle, absorption chiller and, domestic hot water system) are proposed to meet the electricity, cooling and heating needs of a building.
   The use of heat storage tank and absorption chiller to use the waste heat of the fuel cell and utilize of organic Rankine cycle to supply some part of the power, in a new arrangement is one of the most important novelties of this study.
   The impacts of current density, operating pressure, and operating temperature of fuel cell on the performance of the trigeneration system are investigated from the perspectives of energy and exergy.
   The net electrical power of the trigeneration system is 432.8 kW, the cooling capacity is 17.5 kW, and the heating capacity is 90.7 kW, and the domestic hot water capacity is 128.5 kW.
   The results show increment of 57% in energy efficiency and 5.3% in exergy efficiency of the trigeneration system compared to the phosphoric acid fuel cell lonely. Also, with increasing the current density and operating temperature, energy and exergy efficiencies of the trigeneration system decrease, while increasing the operating pressure leads to rise of these parameters. Additionally, irreversibility of the trigeneration system is obtained 323.7 kW under the intended operating conditions (maximum power), and the highest and lowest exergy efficiencies are for the turbine (82.57%) and domestic hot water system (17.43%), respectively.
UT WOS:000655062500025
ER

PT C
AU Jeong, S
   An, YY
AF Jeong, Sangjin
   An, Yoon-Young
GP IEEE
TI Climate Change Risk Assessment Method for Electrical Facility
DE climate change; electrical facility; risk evaluation; key performance
   indicator; metric; spider web chart
AB It is gradually recognized that the global climate changes are likely to profoundly affect the global energy sector, which powers the world's economy. The energy sector provides the electricity and fuels that propel the economy, including commerce, manufacturing, transportation, communications, healthcare, water supply and treatment, and other critical infrastructure and systems. It becomes clear that the climate changes have potential for disrupting normal economic operations and quality of life. In addition to efforts to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions that may cause climate change, it is recognized that adapting to and preparing for climate impacts cannot be avoided anymore. Among the various energy sources, electricity infrastructure is indispensable to daily life and is vulnerable to many natural disasters, such as earthquakes, extreme heat, thunderstorms, high winds, ice storms, and floods. In order to investigate the relationship between the climate changes and electrical facility, it is necessary to assess the risk for climate changes in terms of major types of climate change hazards. Currently, there are a lot of activities to provide regional and localized information and insights to support assessing risks and developing effective resilience strategies for electrical systems that are vulnerable to climate change impacts. In order to resolve the limitations of conventional spider web chart and control chart method, this paper proposes a weighted spider web chart method, which supports overall climate change risk calculation and different weights on climate change risk metrics. The main objective of this paper is to present the general weighted spider web chart model and investigate the usefulness and applicability of the proposed weighted spider web chart model through the strength-weakness opportunity-threat (SWOT) analysis.
UT WOS:000445267100045
ER

PT J
AU Mandapaka, PV
   Lo, EYM
AF Mandapaka, Pradeep V.
   Lo, Edmond Y. M.
TI Assessing Shock Propagation and Cascading Uncertainties Using the
   Input-Output Framework: Analysis of an Oil Refinery Accident in
   Singapore
DE indirect impacts; input-output analysis; inoperability; inventory;
   recovery dynamics; uncertainties
ID INTERDEPENDENT INFRASTRUCTURE; ECONOMIC-IMPACT; DISASTER IMPACT;
   RECOVERY ANALYSIS; GHOSH MODEL; INOPERABILITY; RESILIENCE; PLAUSIBILITY;
   PREPAREDNESS; FAILURE
AB The impacts of shock events frequently cascade beyond the primarily affected sector(s), through the interdependent economic system, and result in higher-order indirect losses in other sectors. This study employed the inoperability input-output model (IIM) and the dynamic IIM (DIIM) to model recovery of sectors after a shock event and quantify associated total losses. Considering data limitations and uncertainties regarding sectoral recovery time, a key variable in DIIM, a probabilistic approach is used for modelling uncertainty in recovery times. The event analyzed is the 2011 oil refinery fire accident in Pulau Bukom (PB) island, Singapore, which caused the refinery to shut down for 11 days and be partially operational for several days thereafter. The impacts are assessed using the regrouped 15-sector Singapore IO data of year 2010, with manufacturing sector as the directly affected sector. The initial economic impact of the PB refinery fire is assessed in the top-down framework using the refinery's contribution to the manufacturing sector and nation's GDP. The higher-order losses are quantified considering different recovery paths for the directly affected sector and accounting for its inventory. Simulation experiments using synthetic IO tables are also carried out to understand relationship between recovery characteristics of directly and indirectly affected sectors. The results from IIM analysis show that the indirect losses are about 35-38% of direct losses. The DIIM analysis reveal that the utilities sectors (e.g., electricity, water supply and treatment) suffer the largest inoperability among indirectly affected sectors for a given direct damage to the manufacturing sector. The results also illustrate the dependence of overall losses on the recovery path of the directly affected sector, and associated uncertainties in sectoral recovery times.
UT WOS:000918448700001
ER

PT J
AU Holmgren, CJ
   Roux, D
   Doméjean, S
AF Holmgren, C. J.
   Roux, D.
   Domejean, S.
TI Minimal intervention dentistry: part 5. Atraumatic restorative treatment
   (ART) - a minimum intervention and minimally invasive approach for the
   management of dental caries
ID CARIOUS DENTIN; SEALANTS; LESIONS; RECOMMENDATIONS; EXCAVATION;
   PHILOSOPHY; SURVIVAL; HEALTH; LAYERS
AB While originally developed in response to a need to provide effective restorative and preventive treatment in underserved communities where running water and electricity might not always be available, over the past two decades, the atraumatic restorative treatment (ART) approach has become a worldwide phenomenon; used not only in some of the poorest developing countries but also in some of the most wealthy. The ART approach involves the removal of infected dentine with hand-instruments followed by the placement of a restoration where the adjacent pits and fissures are sealed simultaneously using high viscosity glass-ionomer inserted under finger pressure. Reliable results can only be obtained if the treatment protocol, as described in this article, is closely followed. ART should be considered as a therapeutic option especially in children, anxious patients and those with special needs.
UT WOS:000313566100013
ER

PT J
AU Wang, JF
   Yan, ZQ
   Wang, M
   Dai, YP
AF Wang, Jiangfeng
   Yan, Zhequan
   Wang, Man
   Dai, Yiping
TI Thermodynamic analysis and optimization of an ammonia-water power system
   with LNG (liquefied natural gas) as its heat sink
DE Ammonia-water mixture; Genetic algorithm; Liquefied natural gas; Waste
   heat recovery
ID COLD ENERGY; CYCLE; RECOVERY
AB Due to a good behavior of ammonia-water during the two-phase heat addition process and the liquefied natural gas with great cold energy, an ammonia-water power system with LNG as its heat sink is proposed to utilize the low grade waste heat. Based on the thermodynamic mathematical models, the effects of key thermodynamic design parameters, including turbine inlet pressure, turbine inlet temperature, ammonia mass fraction, pinch temperature difference and approach temperature difference in the heat recovery vapor generator, on the system performance are examined from the view of both thermodynamics and economics. To obtain the optimum performance, multi-objective optimization is conducted to find the best thermodynamic design parameters from both thermodynamic and economic aspects using NSGA-II (Non-dominated sorting genetic algorithm-II). The exergy efficiency, total heat transfer capability and turbine size parameter are selected as three objective functions to maximize the exergy efficiency, and minimize the total heat transfer capability and turbine size parameter under the given waste heat conditions. The results show that turbine inlet pressure, turbine inlet temperature, ammonia mass fraction, pinch temperature difference and approach temperature difference have significant effects on the system performance. By multi-objective optimization, the Pareto frontier solution for the ammonia-water power system is obtained. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000316432700052
ER

PT J
AU Hosseini, SR
   Amidpour, M
   Shakib, SE
AF Hosseini, Seyed Reza
   Amidpour, Majid
   Shakib, Seyed Ehsan
TI Cost optimization of a combined power and water desalination plant with
   exergetic, environment and reliability consideration
DE Power plant; Multi stage flash desalination; Multi-objective
   optimization; Thermoenvironomic; Exergy efficiency; Reliability
ID THERMOECONOMIC OPTIMIZATION; DESIGN; ENERGY
AB The present study deals with the multi-objective optimization for designing a combined gas turbine and multi stage flash desalination plant. In optimization approach, the exergetic, economic and environmental aspects have been considered, simultaneously. In order to achieve the optimal design. Multi-objective genetic algorithm (MOGA) is applied as a suitable optimization technique. The thermoenvironomic objective function is obtained by integrating the environmental impacts and thermoeconomic objective. By applying the optimization approach, this objective function is minimized, whereas system exergy efficiency is maximized. Moreover, equipment reliability using the state-space and the continuous Markov method is incorporated in optimization results to improve the products' cost values. The optimization results show that the cost of products and environmental cost impact are reduced by 13.4% and 53.4%, respectively, whereas a 14.8% increase happens in total exergy efficiency. Therefore, improvement in all objectives has been achieved using the optimization process, although the power and water productions have not changed much. Additionally, the sensitivity analysis shows the relationship between the fuel cost, pollution damage cost and the objective functions. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000300478100016
ER

PT J
AU Rezwana, N
   Jeeta, SS
   Adit, NSA
AF Rezwana, Nahid
   Jeeta, Samira Sayeed
   Adit, Nazmus Sakib Al Islam
TI Investigating the Consequences of Heat Waves on Social Groups and Coping
   Strategy in Dhaka City
DE South Asia; Regression analysis; Adaptation; Resilience; Societal
   impacts; Vulnerability
ID CLIMATE-CHANGE; NATURAL DISASTERS; 2 DECADES; VULNERABILITY; EXPOSURE;
   IMPACTS; INCOME; RISK
AB This study investigates the economic and health effects of heat waves in Dhaka City to understand how different social strata experience heat waves. A mixed-methods strategy, involving quantitative and qualitative methods, was applied to accomplish the research goals. A semistructured questionnaire survey was administered through face-to-face interviews with 100 respondents, until the saturation point was reached. It was supplemented by three interviews for case studies and two focus group discussions (five-six participants each). Chi-square tests and cross tabulations were done to find the significance level among the data, which supported the qualitative outcome. The study finds that the economically marginalized group experiences more health and economic impacts of heat waves. About half (54%) of the economically marginalized people (N = 40) face reduced income, and 86.21% of them missed working days during heat waves. Based on the financial impact metrics used in this study, there is a negligible impact on the high-net-worth individual and 41% of median-income households (N = 50) see income reduction. Economically marginalized people face more serious health impacts like dehydration, fever, irritability, asthma, heat exhaustion, and rashes. They adopt various coping strategies to manage heat stress, such as drinking more water, taking frequent showers, using wet or soaked cloths, and spending time outside their overcrowded rooms. High-net-worth people face irritability and heat exhaustion. Contextual analysis reveals that inequality in urban facilities (access to open spaces, water and electricity supply, and public toilets) increases the vulnerability of economically marginalized residents in heat waves. To improve the conditions, the study emphasizes community-based adaptation measures that consider vulnerabilities of different social classes to improve the situation.
UT WOS:001721555700003
ER

PT J
AU Alzarooni, E
   Ali, T
   Atabay, S
   Yilmaz, AG
   Mortula, MM
   Fattah, KP
   Khan, Z
AF Alzarooni, Eisa
   Ali, Tarig
   Atabay, Serter
   Yilmaz, Abdullah Gokhan
   Mortula, Md. Maruf
   Fattah, Kazi Parvez
   Khan, Zahid
TI GIS-Based Identification of Locations in Water Distribution Networks
   Vulnerable to Leakage
DE logistic regression; vulnerability analysis; water distribution network;
   analytic hierarchy process; leakage detection; water losses
ID SYSTEM
AB The detection of leakages in Water Distribution Networks (WDNs) is usually challenging and identifying their locations may take a long time. Current water leak detection methods such as model-based and measurement-based approaches face significant limitations that impact response times, resource requirements, accuracy, and location identification. This paper presents a method for determining locations in the WDNs that are vulnerable to leakage by combining six leakage-conditioning factors using logistic regression and vulnerability analysis. The proposed model considered three fixed physical factors (pipe length per junction, number of fittings per length, and pipe friction factor) and three varying operational aspects (drop in pressure, decrease in flow, and variations in chlorine levels). The model performance was validated using 13 district metered areas (DMAs) of the Sharjah Electricity and Water Authority (SEWA) WDN using ArcGIS. Each of the six conditioning factors was assigned a weight that reflects its contribution to leakage in the WDNs based on the Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP) method. The highest weight was set to 0.25 for both pressure and flow, while 0.2 and 0.14 were set for the chlorine and number of fittings per length, respectively. The minimum weight was set to 0.08 for both length per junction and friction factor. When the model runs, it produces vulnerability to leakage maps, which indicate the DMAs' vulnerability classes ranging from very high to very low. Real-world data and different scenarios were used to validate the method, and the areas vulnerable to leakage were successfully identified based on fixed physical and varying operational factors. This vulnerability map will provide a comprehensive understanding of the risks facing a system and help stakeholders develop and implement strategies to mitigate the leakage. Therefore, water utility companies can employ this method for corrective maintenance activities and daily operations. The proposed approach can offer a valuable tool for reducing water production costs and increasing the efficiency of WDN.
UT WOS:000979268900001
ER

PT C
AU Momeni, A
   Prasad, V
   Dharmawardena, HI
   Piratla, KR
   Venayagamoorthy, K
AF Momeni, Ahmad
   Prasad, Vindhyawasini
   Dharmawardena, Hasala I.
   Piratla, Kalyan R.
   Venayagamoorthy, Kumar
GP IEEE
TI Mapping and Modeling Interdependent Power, Water, and Gas
   Infrastructures
DE Components; Cascading Failure; Interdependent Infrastructure; Power
   Grid; PWG Networks; Real-time
ID CASCADING FAILURES; ELECTRIC-POWER; SIMULATION; NETWORKS; VULNERABILITY;
   CONSEQUENCES; MANAGEMENT; STABILITY; LESSONS; FLOW
AB Although various aspects of interdependencies among Power, Water, and Gas (PWG) infrastructures have been studied in the last couple of decades, there still exists void of modeling techniques capable of revealing the interdependencies among real-world infrastructures. This paper presents review of the state-of-the-art knowledge on interdependent critical infrastructure (ICI) modeling techniques along with delineation and discussion of interdependencies at transmission and distribution levels among PWG networks. The present study will also outline the suitability of various approaches to work with real-time infrastructure monitoring data that is becoming abundantly available in the recent years. The paper also highlights some directions on future research in interdependency modeling as well as suggestions on improving real-time interdependent models in operational and physical aspects.
UT WOS:000467093500043
ER

PT J
AU Tiong, A
   Vergara, HA
AF Tiong, Achara
   Vergara, Hector A.
TI A two-stage stochastic multi-objective resilience optimization model for
   network expansion of interdependent power-water networks under
   disruption
DE Multi-objective optimization; Two-stage stochastic programming;
   Interdependent networks; Resilience; Network expansion; DC power flow
ID MATHEMATICAL FRAMEWORK; INFRASTRUCTURE SYSTEMS; SUPPLIER SELECTION;
   ORDER ALLOCATION; NATIONAL ENERGY; FLOW MODEL; METRICS; DESIGN;
   VULNERABILITY; EFFICIENT
AB Network expansion of interdependent critical infrastructures under disruption uncertainty is modeled as a mixed-integer two-stage stochastic multi-objective optimization program. In this model, expected total cost and expected post-disaster resilience are considered competing objectives. Network resilience is quantified through network complexity and unmet demand. Functional relationships between critical infrastructures are modeled using a network-based approach with the physical interdependency enforced through demand constraints. Uncertainty is introduced as a set of random parameters corresponding to disruption scenarios. The proposed model is demonstrated in a case study of coupled power-water networks with the power flow in the grid modeled using linear DC power flow approximation equations. The deterministic-equivalent multi-objective model is solved using the augmented &-constraint method. Solutions from stochastic and deterministic models are compared and the value of stochastic optimization is discussed.
UT WOS:000931670800001
ER

PT C
AU Ghaleb, A
   Zhioua, S
   Almulhem, A
AF Ghaleb, Asem
   Zhioua, Sami
   Almulhem, Ahmad
GP IEEE
TI SCADA-SST: A SCADA Security Testbed
DE SCADA; Simulation; Security testing; Industrial Control Systems; Network
   attacks
AB The number of reported cybersecurity incidents on SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition) systems increased significantly in the past few years. One contributing factor is the fact that security testing of live SCADA systems is not practical as such systems are expected to be operational 24/7. Also and most importantly, conducting live security testing on these types of systems is generally costly. A practical and cost-effective solution is to carry out security testing on a simulated version of the physical setting. The main contribution of this paper is to present a SCADA simulation environment (SCADA-SST) suitable for security testing. The simulation environment is generic, easy to setup (comes with a detailed manual), and supports hybrid architectures (involving simulated as well as physical components). We show how SCADA-SST can be used to simulate two realistic settings, namely, Water distribution and Electrical power grid. Finally, for the sake of security testing example, we show how SCADA-SST can be used to assess the resilience of common SCADA nodes to DOS attacks.
UT WOS:000406137700004
ER

PT C
AU Xing, TY
   Zeng, CY
   Han, B
   Jiang, MD
   He, YZ
   Liu, SH
   Huang, JL
   Zhu, XL
AF Xing Tianyang
   Zeng Chunyang
   Han Bin
   Jiang Mudi
   He Yunze
   Liu Shenhui
   Huang Junling
   Zhu Xiaoliang
GP AMER SOC MECHANICAL ENGINEERS
TI OPTIMAL SENSOR PLACEMENT IN NUCLEAR POWER STEAM WATER SYSTEM BASED ON
   SIGNED DIRECTED GRAPH
DE fault diagnosis; signed directed graph; multiobjective optimization;
   nuclear power plant
ID LOCATING SENSORS; FAULT; DIAGNOSIS; ALGORITHM; FAILURES
AB Nuclear power plant is expected to achieve the comprehensive fault monitoring and ensure the secure and stable operation. Enhancing the reliability of the digital measurement system will effectively mitigate the potential risks associated with compromised operation of the nuclear power system, confine the extent of fault impact, and bolster the operator's situational awareness proficiency. This paper presents a comprehensive modeling strategy for obtaining the fault-sensor correlation matrix in the deaerator system of a nuclear power plant based on SDG theory. Based on the utilization of Advanced Process Simulation Software (APROS), we successfully developed a dynamic numerical simulation model for the deaeration system in nuclear power plants. By conducting a comprehensive analysis of the correlation between fault propagation path and sensor, we have successfully established a probability model that accurately assesses the performance of sensor fault detection. A multi-objective optimization model for sensor layout, considering the cost of sensor placement, detection ability, and fault correlation, was developed based on constraint relationships. Compared to conventional sensor placement schemes, the optimized sensor placement scheme exhibits superior performance in terms of cost-effectiveness in arranging sensors, reliability in fault detection, and correlation between faults and sensor points.
UT WOS:001349541100019
ER

PT J
AU Rafi, S
   Santos, J
   Meng, SS
   Mozumder, P
AF Rafi, Shahnawaz
   Santos, Joost
   Meng, Sisi
   Mozumder, Pallab
TI Extreme weather events and critical infrastructure resilience: Lessons
   from Hurricane Irma in Florida
DE Resilience; Inoperability; Input-output model; Infrastructure; Utility
   disruption
ID INPUT-OUTPUT MODEL; INOPERABILITY
AB Extreme weather events like hurricanes can severely impact the local economy. They disrupt vital services such as power, communication, and transportation. This study evaluates the economic impact of disruptions to seven critical infrastructure systems in Florida following Hurricane Irma's landfall in 2017. These sectors included disruptions in electricity, water, phone, internet, transportation, workplace, and grocery access. A household survey of Florida residents across 14 Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSAs) provided the extent of disruption in each infrastructure system. Then, the household survey responses (percentage of respondents who experienced the specific type of disruption and average days of that disruption) were incorporated into the Dynamic Inoperability Input-Output Model (DIIM) to assess the impact of these disruptions on Florida's 71 interconnected sectors. The total projected economic loss from the DIIM ranges from $3.66 to $5.30 billion, depending on the recovery period assumptions based on the number of working days. This study highlights the economic sector recovery and resilience due to critical infrastructure system failure and provides insights regarding the resilience of each sector and their inherent interdependencies. The findings can be valuable to policymakers for disaster preparedness and recovery planning for future extreme weather events.
UT WOS:001544045100002
ER

PT J
AU Leijon, J
   Engstroem, J
   Göteman, M
   Boström, C
AF Leijon, Jennifer
   Engstroem, Jens
   Goteman, Malin
   Bostrom, Cecilia
TI Desalination and wave power for freshwater supply on Gotland
DE Desalination; Renewable energy; Island; Wave power; Reliability
ID ENERGY; SYSTEMS
AB Reliable access to drinking water and electricity can be a challenge, especially on islands. In this paper, desalination systems powered stand-alone by renewable energy sources are discussed, with a focus on wave power for the Swedish island Gotland. The objective is to evaluate the opportunity of using wave power for a desalination system on Gotland. The method includes assessing the electricity generation from a wave power park to power a desalination plant. The results show that the desalination plant would require 350 MWh annually, whereas the wave power plant could deliver 1891 MWh, supporting that it is technically feasible for a wave power park installed off the coast of Gotland to power a desalination plant.
UT WOS:001242479500001
ER

PT C
AU Maklouf, K
   Ben Youssef, K
   Guizani, A
   Elfil, H
AF Maklouf, K.
   Ben Youssef, K.
   Guizani, A.
   Elfil, H.
BE Bruzzone, A
   Frydman, C
   Longo, F
   Mekouar, K
   Piera, MA
TI DIAGNOSIS OF THE OPEN-GAIN REVERSE OSMOSIS DESALINATION UNIT
DE desalination; reverse osmosis; scaling; conductivity
ID SYSTEM
AB In the framework of the OPEN-GAIN project (OPtimal ENgineering design for dependable water and power Generation in remote Areas using renewable energies and INtelligent automation) a Reverse Osmosis unit was installed at CRTEn (Tunisia) by the end of 2008. This prototype, which needs 5kW/m(3) as power demand, was designed to desalinate well water with about 15 g.L-1 TDS (Total Dissolved Salts). It provides 1 m(3)/h peimeate flux with approximately 600 mg.L-1 TDS with 60% recovery rate. The RO unit was running in both closed and open circuit to desalinate well water. Theirs perfoimances are registered and analyzed. The different desalinate waters (Feed, produced, reject) are characterized to prevent scaling and aggressiveness. Comparing to TDS values, the inlet water conductivity sensor is suspected to present some defaults. The reliability of the conductivity sensor is tested by a model based on a semi-empiric foimula, function of water conductivity, of the produced water flux.
UT WOS:000392605000019
ER

PT J
AU Zhang, HL
   Duan, L
   Li, SL
   Gao, QS
   Li, MY
   Xing, F
   Zhao, Y
AF Zhang, Hengliang
   Duan, Liang
   Li, Shilong
   Gao, Qiusheng
   Li, Mingyue
   Xing, Fei
   Zhao, Yang
TI Simultaneous Wastewater Treatment and Resources Recovery by Forward
   Osmosis Coupled with Microbial Fuel Cell: A Review
DE osmotic microbial fuel cells; cooperation mechanisms; resources
   recovery; operational factors; potential applications and challenges
ID FILM-COMPOSITE MEMBRANE; BIOELECTROCHEMICAL SYSTEMS;
   ELECTRICITY-GENERATION; BIOELECTRICITY GENERATION; POWER-GENERATION;
   RETENTION TIME; FO MEMBRANE; FLUX; PERFORMANCE; ENERGY
AB Osmotic microbial fuel cells (OsMFCs) with the abilities to simultaneously treat wastewater, produce clean water, and electricity provided a novel approach for the application of microbial fuel cell (MFC) and forward osmosis (FO). This synergistic merging of functions significantly improved the performances of OsMFCs. Nonetheless, despite their promising potential, OsMFCs currently receive inadequate attention in wastewater treatment, water reclamation, and energy recovery. In this review, we delved into the cooperation mechanisms between the MFC and the FO. MFC facilitates the FO process by promoting water flux, reducing reverse solute flux (RSF), and degrading contaminants in the feed solution (FS). Moreover, the water flux based on the FO principle contributed to MFC's electricity generation capability. Furthermore, we summarized the potential roles of OsMFCs in resource recovery, including nutrient, energy, and water recovery, and identified the key factors, such as configurations, FO membranes, and draw solutions (DS). We prospected the practical applications of OsMFCs in the future, including their capabilities to remove emerging pollutants. Finally, we also highlighted the existing challenges in membrane fouling, system expansion, and RSF. We hope this review serves as a useful guide for the practical implementation of OsMFCs.
UT WOS:001172557800001
ER

PT J
AU Tabandeh, A
   Sharma, N
   Gardoni, P
AF Tabandeh, Armin
   Sharma, Neetesh
   Gardoni, Paolo
TI Seismic risk and resilience analysis of networked industrial facilities
DE Seismic resilience; Uncertainty propagation; Networked systems;
   Functionality; Reliability
ID MODELS
AB Industrial facilities, as an essential part of socio-economic systems, are susceptible to disruptions caused by earthquakes. Such disruptions may result from direct structural damage to facilities or their loss of functionality due to impacts on their support facilities and infrastructure systems. Decisions to improve the seismic performance of industrial facilities should ideally be informed by risk (and resilience) analysis, taking into account their loss of functionality and the following recovery under the influence of various sources of uncertainty. Rather than targeting specific individual facilities like a hazardous chemical plant, our objective is to quantify the resilience of interacting industrial facilities (i.e., networked industrial facilities) in the face of uncertain seismic events while accounting for their functional dependencies on infrastructure systems. A specific facility, such as a hazardous chemical plant, can be a compound node in the network representation, interacting with other facilities and their supporting infrastructure components. In this context, a compound node is a complex system in its own right. To this end, this paper proposes a formulation to model the functionality of interacting industrial facilities and infrastructure using a system of coupled differential equations, representing dynamic processes on interdependent networked systems. The equations are subject to uncertain initial conditions and have uncertain coefficients, capturing the effects of uncertainties in earthquake intensity measures, structural damage, and post-disaster recovery process. The paper presents a computationally tractable approach to quantify and propagate various sources of uncertainty through the formulated equations. It also discusses the recovery of damaged industrial facilities and infrastructure components under resource and implementation constraints. The effects of changes in structural properties and networks' connectivity are incorporated into the governing equations to model networks' functionality recovery and quantify their resilience. The paper illustrates the proposed approach for the seismic resilience analysis of a hypothetical but realistic shipping company in the city of Memphis in Tennessee, United States. The example models the effects of dependent water and power infrastructure systems on the functionality disruption and recovery of networked industrial facilities subject to seismic hazards.
UT WOS:001022073500002
ER

PT J
AU Tao, JY
   Liu, YZ
   Xu, ZX
   Wei, YJ
   Ren, L
   Shi, XY
   E, Y
   Wang, ZY
   Wu, JN
   Wang, XB
   Yu, SD
AF Tao, Junyang
   Liu, Yizhe
   Xu, Zhongxin
   Wei, Yujun
   Ren, Lin
   Shi, Xingyu
   E, Yi
   Wang, Zhiyi
   Wu, Jianing
   Wang, Xianbao
   Yu, Shudong
TI Hierarchical LDH@Ti3C2-based bifunctional evaporator for solar-driven
   water-electricity cogeneration
DE Evaporation; Photothermal conversion; Water-electricity cogeneration;
   Layered double hydroxide
AB Freshwater scarcity and energy shortages pose critical challenges to sustainable development, highlighting the urgent need for integrated solutions. Herein, we report a hierarchical layered double hydroxide LDH@Ti3C2 composite engineered for water evaporation and thermoelectric power generation. The composite was synthesized through a multistep process, where ZIF-67-derived N-doped carbon was etched in situ to form CoMo LDH, which was subsequently assembled with exfoliated Ti3C2 nanosheets via electrostatic interaction. The resulting LDH@Ti3C2 exhibits broadband absorption (96.13%), good photothermal performance, and intrinsic magnetism for facile recovery. When incorporated into an air-laid paper substrate, the integrated evaporator shows 2.09 kg m- 2 h- 1 of evaporation rate and a solar-to-steam conversion efficiency of 86.3% under 1 sun irradiation, combined with robust stability over repeated cycles. Integrated with thermoelectric modules, simultaneously harvests waste heat, delivering an output power density of 33.7 +/- 2.2 mW m-2 and stable performance in multiple cycles. Outdoor testing further demonstrates efficient seawater desalination, dye pollutant removal, and sufficient electricity generation to power small electronic devices. The proposed strategy effectively promotes the practical application of sustainable and multifunctional systems for simultaneous solar water purification and electricity generation.
UT WOS:001696045900001
ER

PT J
AU Yu, MJ
   Muy, S
   Quader, F
   Bonifacio, A
   Varghese, R
   Clerigo, E
   Biery, M
   Mei, M
   Cutler, D
   Schoenung, JM
AF Yu, Mengjing
   Muy, Suzann
   Quader, Farah
   Bonifacio, Abigail
   Varghese, Roshni
   Clerigo, Elisha
   Biery, Maya
   Mei, Maggie
   Cutler, Dustin
   Schoenung, Julie M.
TI Combined Hydrogen, Heat and Power (CHHP) pilot plant design
DE Combined Hydrogen Heat and Power System; Tr-generation; Hydrogen power;
   Hydrogen purification; Heat recovery
ID GAS SHIFT REACTION
AB The Combined Hydrogen, Heat and Power (CHHP) system consists of a molten carbonate fuel cell, DFC300. DFC300 consumes biogas, and produces electricity and hydrogen. The high temperature flue gas can be recovered for useful purposes. During the hydrogen recovery process, the anode exhaust gas (37.1% H2O, 45.9% CO2, 5.7% CO, and 11.2% H-2) is sent through a water gas shift (WGS) reactor to increase the hydrogen and carbon dioxide composition, and then water is removed in a vapor liquid separator. The remaining hydrogen and carbon dioxide mixture gas is separated using a 2-adsorber pressure swing adsorption unit under 1379 kPa. Resulting hydrogen can achieve 99.99% purity, and it can be stored in composite hydrogen storage tanks pressurized at 34,474 kPa. Hydrogen is produced at a rate of 2.58 kg/h. The produced hydrogen is filled into transportable hydrogen cylinders and trucked to a residential community 7.5 km away from the CHHP site. The community is powered by fuel cells to supply electricity to approximately 51 apartments. A heat recovery unit to produce steam and hot water recovers hot air exhaust from the DFC300, having a total heating value of 405 MJ/h. The greenhouse employs a two-phase steam heating system. Hot water supply is mainly needed for the CHHP education center. DFC300 produces electricity at a maximum capacity of 280 kW. A substation is built to set up the interconnections. Power poles and power lines are built to distribute electricity to the CHHP system, the education center, and the greenhouse. The overall electricity consumption of the CHHP system is 86 kW, and the greenhouse consumes 40 kW. Therefore, an aggregate of 154 kW of power can be used to provide power to the UC Davis campus.
UT WOS:000317996700001
ER

PT J
AU Sun, J
   Hua, LM
   Niu, YJ
   Zhang, ZY
   Dong, R
   Chu, B
   Sun, WQ
   Cai, B
AF Sun, Jian
   Hua, Limin
   Niu, Yujie
   Zhang, Zhiying
   Dong, Rui
   Chu, Bin
   Sun, Wenqian
   Cai, Bin
TI Grassland restoration measures influence soil water-holding capacity by
   altering soil and vegetation properties composition
DE Alpine meadows; Water tower; Restoration; Soil infiltration; Subset
   regression
ID LOESS PLATEAU; LAND-USE; CARBON; MOISTURE; STORAGE; XIZANG
AB The Tibetan plateau, referred to as the "Water Tower of Asia", is dominated by alpine meadows. The ability of these meadows to support water source supply is directly influenced by soil water capacity; however, their soil and vegetation degradation may reduce the water-holding capacity. Although many restoration projects have been implemented on the Tibetan plateau to improve water retention on the degraded meadows, their effectiveness and the underlying mechanisms remain unclear and are debated. This study focused on degraded alpine meadows in the upper reaches of the Yellow River, a crucial water source region on the Tibetan plateau. We investigated plant community characteristics, soil physicochemical properties, and soil water-holding capacity-comprising a total of 20 parameters-under three main restoration measures, involving grazing prohibition, composted organic fertilizer combined with reseeding, and a combined measure of grazing prohibition, composted organic fertilizer, and reseeding. The effects of these restoration measures on soil water-holding capacity were analyzed using subset regression analysis and structural equation modeling. The results revealed that all three restoration measures increased the height, coverage, and biomass of plant communities. Additionally, soil physicochemical properties and water-holding capacity improved, with increases in soil organic carbon, total phosphorus, total nitrogen, porosity, and soil infiltration rate. Restoration measures explained 98 % of the variation in soil water-holding capacity through changes in plant community height, soil moisture, soil organic carbon, and total phosphorus content. Our findings provide scientific insights and comprehensive evaluations to understanding soil water-holding capacity through several dominant restoration measures on the Tibetan plateau. (c) 2026 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation and China Water and Power Press. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/ 4.0/).
UT WOS:001755767900001
ER

PT J
AU Giannoutsos, SV
   Manias, SN
AF Giannoutsos, Spyridon V.
   Manias, Stefanos N.
TI A Data-Driven Process Controller for Energy-Efficient Variable-Speed
   Pump Operation in the Central Cooling Water System of Marine Vessels
DE Data-driven control; flow control; industrial power system control;
   marine vehicle power systems; power conversion; process control; pumps;
   variable-speed drives
AB In this paper, a data-driven process controller is designed and implemented onboard a typical marine vessel for optimal variable-speed pump operation, leading to the energy efficiency optimization of its central cooling water system. To match variable flow rate requirements due to changes in the vessel's operational profile with respect to plant limitations, real-time process measurements are used as feedback signals to adjust the parameters and set-points of a data-driven process controller with self-tuned proportional-integral-differential control loops, which is realized through a commercial programmable logic controller and regulates the speed of sea water cooling pumps in order to maximize power saving potential during sea-going and cargo unloading periods. Data-driven control establishes system dynamics according to process parameter variation and ensures system reliability through parameter monitoring, regardless of the controlled plant model. The plant power saving potential is initially examined through a practical case study, whereas experimental results provided after the proposed control system retrofit installation onboard a tanker vessel show significant power balance improvement and reduction of diesel generator fuel consumption compared to existing pump throttle control methods, verifying that marine industry can be greatly benefited from this energy efficiency upgrade.
UT WOS:000346767400061
ER

PT J
AU Dossi, S
   Donaldson, DL
   Little, K
   Pastor, E
AF Dossi, Simona
   Donaldson, Daniel L.
   Little, Kerryn
   Pastor, Elsa
TI Wildfire risk to critical infrastructure: A systematic review
   highlighting the need for cross-sector collaboration
DE Wildfire; Risk; Critical infrastructure; Power; Water; Transport;
   Industry; Hazardous
ID WILDLAND FIRE; FOREST-FIRE; IMPACT; PREDICTION; MANAGEMENT; TRANSPORT;
   SEVERITY; HAZARD; TANKS; SMOKE
AB Wildfire risk to critical infrastructure is an increasing concern as the frequency and intensity of wildfires continue to increase. Existing research has focused primarily on electrical infrastructure and watershed contamination, leaving other infrastructure sectors comparatively understudied. In this systematic literature review, we analyse the types of infrastructure that have been examined and summarise the methodologies used to characterise wildfire hazard, exposure, and vulnerability across power, water, transport, and highly hazardous industrial infrastructure. This review provides a consolidation of state-of-the-art approaches in the analysis of wildfire risk to critical infrastructure. Key gaps identified include lack of hazard characterisations of non-flame wildfire hazards (smoke and firebrands), limited and asset-focused physical vulnerability analysis and related damage thresholds, poor linkages between regional hazard mapping, and limited consideration of critical infrastructure interdependencies. These gaps directly motivate methodological synergies. For instance, detailed thermal and vulnerability modelling developed for water distribution pipes can be transferred to similar components in other sectors. Dynamic wildfire and smoke models for power and hazardous industrial infrastructure can be extended to sectors currently using static or occurrence-based metrics, and publicly produced regional hazard products could be integrated with sector-specific exposure and vulnerability models to create consistent, multi-scale risk assessments. By systematically comparing risk characterisation approaches across sectors, this review highlights that critical infrastructure systems share sufficient commonalities, vulnerability mechanisms, and spatial scales to enable transfer and adaptation of wildfire risk assessment methodologies. Coordinated development and sharing of hazard, exposure, and vulnerability characterisation tools across sectors and the development of proactive adaptation plans would substantially improve the assessment and management of wildfire risk to critical infrastructure.
UT WOS:001756235300001
ER

PT J
AU Zhu, YZ
   Klassert, C
   Klauer, B
   Gawel, E
AF Zhu, Yuanzao
   Klassert, Christian
   Klauer, Bernd
   Gawel, Erik
TI Estimating Household Water Demand and Affordability Under Intermittent
   Supply: An Econometric Analysis with a Water-Energy Nexus Perspective
   for Pimpri-Chinchwad, India
DE water-energy nexus; household piped water demand; Discrete-Continuous
   Choice model; intermittent water supply; water affordability; water
   demand management
ID TARIFFS; KATHMANDU; IMPACTS; ACCESS; COSTS; MODEL; FORM
AB Urban water utilities in rapidly developing regions face growing challenges in ensuring continuous supply. Intermittent public water supply leads to unreliable and inequitable access, compelling households to adopt energy-intensive coping strategies. This creates a nexus between water and energy demand at the household level. Few econometric analyses of household water demand have explicitly addressed this demand-side nexus in developing regions. Using survey data from the city of Pimpri-Chinchwad, India, where intermittent water supply is prevalent, we analyze household expenditures related to water access and estimate a piped water demand function with a Discrete-Continuous Choice model. We find that electricity expenditures for accessing water exceed water bills for approximately one-third of households. Including these costs in affordability calculations reveals hidden financial burdens, particularly for middle-income households. Water and electricity prices, income, and household size significantly influence water demand, with an income elasticity of 0.177 and water price elasticities ranging from 0 to -0.876. The cross-price elasticity of -0.097 indicates weak complementarity between electricity and piped water, suggesting electricity price changes do affect water use but are insufficient to drive substantial behavioral shifts. Targeted price increases in high-consumption blocks are more effective at curbing overuse, while simultaneous increases in water and electricity prices may heighten household vulnerability. These findings highlight the need for integrated, nexus-aware demand management strategies, particularly in regions with intermittent supply.
UT WOS:001593393100001
ER

PT J
AU Yuan, TJ
   Mao, YL
AF Yuan, Tiejiang
   Mao, Yaling
TI A review of pinch analysis techniques and extended application in power
   systems
DE Pinch analysis techniques; Graphical method; Power system; Heat
   exchanger network; Water network; Hydrogen network
ID PROCESS INTEGRATION TECHNIQUES; RENEWABLE ENERGY-SYSTEMS; HEAT-EXCHANGER
   NETWORKS; CARBON EMISSIONS; NEW-ZEALAND; SENSITIVITY-ANALYSIS; TARGETING
   METHOD; ELECTRIC SYSTEM; ANALYSIS CEPA; FLOW-RATE
AB The pinch analysis technique circumvents the drawbacks of local optima in the design of production processes and determines energy targets from a systemic design perspective. It has now evolved into a comprehensive methodology for process industry integration. As research deepens in traditional industrial domains, the exploration of applications in emerging fields is gradually expanding. However, solely relying on the analysis and summarization within a singular domain is insufficient for driving broader applications across diverse fields. Therefore, this paper discusses the pinch analysis techniques across various fields, from energy exchange networks to mass transfer networks. By examining their technical principles and categorizing method types, different technologies are horizontally compared, and their key characteristics are revealed. Subsequently, this paper explores future development directions and imminent challenges of the pinch analysis technique in power systems, aiming to offer new perspectives for expansion and to address existing issues such as load balance analysis, planning rationality, and reliability assessment in power systems.
UT WOS:001259728700001
ER

PT J
AU Zhou, LG
   Wang, XD
   Wang, ZY
   Zhang, XM
   Chen, C
   Liu, HF
AF Zhou, Ligang
   Wang, Xiangdong
   Wang, Zhaoyan
   Zhang, Xiaoming
   Chen, Cheng
   Liu, Huifang
TI The challenge of soil loss control and vegetation restoration in the
   karst area of southwestern China
DE Karst; Soil loss; Vegetation restoration; Southwestern China
ID ROCKY DESERTIFICATION; LAND-USE; SEDIMENT YIELD; EROSION RATES; BARE
   SLOPES; QUALITY; RUNOFF; WATER; RUSLE; DYNAMICS
AB Soil loss, both from surface soil loss and subsurface soil leakage, in the karst regions of southwestern China is a serious environmental problem that threatens sustainability in that region. The surface soil loss has been extensively studied, and many studies have been conducted to investigate the causes, impacts and mechanisms involved, but the study of subsurface soil leakage has received little attention due to the difficulties in studying the natural conditions. There is no consensus on the overall proportions between surface soil loss and subsurface soil leakage. To control soil loss, improve ecological restoration, and help locals out of poverty, the Chinese government carried out a series of ecological restoration projects in the karst regions of southwestern China starting in the 1980s. As a result, the intensity and areal extent of soil loss continues to decrease and the ecological situation is steadily improving. However, because of the fragile ecosystem in the karst regions, the soil loss control is a long-term task, and the soil loss in some karst regions continues to be a problem. Subsequently, we put forward some suggestions for the policy makers relative to conservation of soil loss and vegetation restoration. These suggestions include: (1) government, private organizations and individuals are encouraged to raise funds for soil loss control and vegetation restoration; (2) nature reserves should be established to increase biodiversity; (3) engineering projects such as small reservoirs, ponds, and flow diversion channels should be constructed in marginal karst regions. (C) 2019 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation and China Water and Power Press. Production and Hosting by Elsevier B.V.
UT WOS:000517833900003
ER

PT J
AU Wang, Q
   Aldana, LAD
   Dufek, EJ
   Ginosar, DM
   Klaehn, JR
   Shi, M
AF Wang, Qiang
   Aldana, Luis A. Diaz
   Dufek, Eric J.
   Ginosar, Daniel M.
   Klaehn, John R.
   Shi, Meng
TI Electrification and decarbonization of spent Li-ion batteries
   purification by using an electrochemical membrane reactor
DE Li -ion batteries recycling; Critical materials; Electrodialysis;
   Electrochemical membrane reactor
ID CATHODE MATERIALS; OXYGEN REDUCTION; LITHIUM; RECOVERY; LICOO2
AB The expanding electric vehicle market brings with it exponential growth in the use of lithium (Li)-ion batteries (LIB) for which a wave of spent LIB is expected to come within the next 5 to 10 years. Due to the economic and strategic value imbedded within the metals contained in LIB, different recycling technologies, including hydrometallurgy, pyrometallurgy and direct recycling, are under development. Being different from previous hydrometallurgical methods, which may have high chemical consumption and negative environmental impact, an electrochemical membrane reactor is designed and validated for the first time, to electrify and decarbonize the impurity removal process. This reactor electroplates copper (Cu) and electrochemically precipitates aluminum (Al) and iron (Fe) from simulated spent LIB leachates, by consuming only air, water, and electricity, and the impurities are reduced to <1 ppm. The purified leachate maintains 99.5 % of the nickel (Ni), 95.4 % of the cobalt (Co) and 99.14 % of manganese (Mn) from the original leachate solution, and then can be directly applied for cathode precursor synthesis. Additionally, the purification process doesn't introduce extra impurity, and the reactor restoration process generates valuable by-product hydro sulfate (H2SO4). This electrochemical process can reduce the cost, because of the much less chemical consumption and the valuable by-product generation, and mitigates the waste emissions, because of no extra impurity introduced and no greenhouse gas (GHG) produced. The chemical precipitation method uses significant amount of NaOH, which induced GHG emission during the manufacturing process.
UT WOS:000901789800003
ER

PT J
AU TADROS, S
AF TADROS, S
TI DESALINATION PLANT INTEGRATION WITH COGENERATION SYSTEMS FOR EOR
   COMMERCIAL INDUSTRIAL APPLICATIONS
AB Several studies, designs, and feed back- of cogeneration systems integration with desalination plants -here called Multi-purpose system- indicated that significant reduction in operating costs together with system reliability and efficiency improvement have been achieved. This paper addresses a number of multi-purpose plants for the simultaneous production of electricity, process steam, heating, cooling, and desalinated water. These facilities either have been designed and are already in operation, or in the conceptual/permitting phase, or in the detailed design phase.
   The purpose of the desalination process portion of the multi-purpose facility was to produce potable water for hotel/housing complex, process make up and drinking water quality for oil business, and relatively high purity water for an industrial application. Specifically, this paper will address the economics and process design feature for the following three - simultaneous - power/water/energy production applications: Multi-purpose system for commercial application Multi-purpose system for "Enhanced Oil Recovery" Multi-purpose for industrial application
UT WOS:A1992KA59200008
ER

PT J
AU Hassan, AS
   Adil, M
AF Hassan, Abdulla Shaheed
   Adil, Mohamed
TI Enhancing disaster management and emergency response in the utility
   sector through Information Systems: A case study of the Maldives
DE Disaster management; Emergency response; Information systems (IS);
   Utility sector; Resilience; Small Island Developing States (SIDS);
   Maldives
ID SITUATION AWARENESS
AB The increasing frequency and severity of natural and technological disasters underscore the urgent need for effective disaster management and emergency response strategies, particularly in Small Island Developing States (SIDS) such as the Maldives. This study examines the role of Information Systems (IS) in enhancing disaster preparedness, response, and resilience within the utility sector, with a focus on electricity and water services in the Greater Male Region. These sectors are critical for ensuring continuity of essential services during crises, and their disruption can severely hinder both immediate response and long-term recovery. Using a qualitative case study design, data were collected through semi-structured interviews with eight primary participants (senior stakeholders from electricity and water utilities in the Greater Male Region), supplemented by documentary analysis of organisational reports and policy documents. Reflexive thematic analysis (Braun and Clarke, 2006) yielded six themes: fragmented disaster planning, underutilised IS integration, insufficient IS training, limited inter-agency collaboration, slow technological adaptation, and inadequate real-time data management. The findings demonstrate that integrated IS can strengthen situational awareness, streamline inter-agency communication, and support more efficient emergency operations. This research contributes to the growing body of knowledge on disaster risk reduction by demonstrating how IS can be leveraged to build resilience in critical utility infrastructure. As one of the first empirical studies of IS integration in Maldivian utility disaster management, this research provides practical recommendations for policymakers and utility providers, with transferable insights for other SIDS facing similar vulnerabilities.
UT WOS:001867126300001
ER

PT J
AU Gumus, E
AF Gumus, Emrah
TI sCO2 power cycle/reverse osmosis distillation system for
   water-electricity cogeneration in nuclear powered ships and submarines
DE Nuclear power; Marine propulsion; Reverse osmosis; sCO2 cycle;
   Cogeneration
ID EXERGY ANALYSIS; OPTIMAL-DESIGN; BRAYTON CYCLE; DESALINATION; REACTOR;
   PERFORMANCE; SEAWATER; ENERGY; OPTIMIZATION; PROPULSION
AB As global concerns about climate change and environmental impacts continue to grow, there is a strong demand for cleaner, greener, and more efficient propulsion solutions in the maritime industry. By leveraging nuclear energy, which offers low carbon emissions and high efficiency, naval vessels can significantly reduce their environmental footprints and contribute to global efforts to combat climate change. Additionally, the ability to produce electricity and freshwater simultaneously addresses the critical need for self-sufficiency during long missions, particularly in remote or resource-constrained areas where access to freshwater may be limited. This study explores a novel approach to address water and energy supply challenges in naval applications through a nuclear-driven supercritical carbon dioxide (sCO2) power cycle-Reverse Osmosis (RO) cogeneration system. The aim is to assess the feasibility and benefits of this system for meeting water and electricity demands in maritime operations and enhancing the sustainability, efficiency, and self-sufficiency of naval vessels with nuclear energy and advanced technologies. A parametric study has been performed to understand the effects of important parameters such as the maximum and minimum cycle temperature and pressure, seawater inlet conditions, pressure vessel design, and membrane properties on the system performance. Moreover, an optimization study has been performed to determine the best possible combination of these parameters to achieve the highest system efficiency. For the determined optimal set of parameter values, it is possible to have an sCO2 power cycle with a cycle efficiency of 40.5 %, an electrical power output of 121.6 MW and an RO system with an efficiency of 29.4 %, a recovery ratio of 29.3 %, a specific fuel consumption (SEC) of 2.29 kW & sdot;h/m3, and a freshwater production rate of 1531.6 m3/d by utilizing 145.9 kW electrical power. The positive outcomes of this study indicate that the system has the potential to be a viable and effective solution for addressing water and energy supply challenges in naval operations.
UT WOS:001115087700001
ER

PT C
AU Putri, SA
   Jiang, ML
   Moazeni, F
   Khazaei, J
AF Putri, Saskia A.
   Jiang, Menglin
   Moazeni, Faegheh
   Khazaei, Javad
GP IEEE
TI MIMO Model Predictive Control for Demand Management in Islanded
   Water-Energy Microgrids
DE Model Predictive Control; Water Distribution System; Off-grid Microgrids
   System; Demand Management
ID CONTROL STRATEGY
AB This paper proposes a multiple input multiple output (MIMO) model predictive control (MPC) strategy for demand management of an integrated water distribution system (WDS) supplied by an islanded microgrid (MG) system. Unlike the existing open-loop microgrid energy management systems that often ignore the inherent interlinks between the water and energy supplies, the proposed closed-loop optimization framework leverages these interlinks to provide an optimal and stable delivery of clean water and electricity to islanded communities. The results demonstrate the feasibility of the proposed interlinked water-energy MPC algorithm to provide efficient water and energy demand management, ensuring the reliability of MPC in both systems concurrently for real-time demand management.
UT WOS:001084633400174
ER

PT J
AU Richards, BS
   Shen, J
   Schäfer, AI
AF Richards, Bryce S.
   Shen, Junjie
   Schaefer, Andrea I.
TI Water-Energy Nexus Perspectives in the Context of Photovoltaic-Powered
   Decentralized Water Treatment Systems: A Tanzanian Case Study
DE defluoridation; energy consumption; membranes; nanofiltration; reverse
   osmosis
ID MEMBRANE TECHNOLOGY; DESALINATION SYSTEM; DRINKING-WATER; FLUCTUATIONS;
   PERFORMANCE; FLUORIDE; REMOVAL; VULNERABILITY; POLLUTION; QUALITY
AB Water and energy are inextricably linked in today's society. This paper broadly introduces the water-energy nexus before focusing on sub-Saharan Africa, where residents have the poorest access to both clean drinking water and electricity worldwide. Given that many of the affected people live in remote areas, new solutions are required to improve the quality of life. The potential of decentralized photovoltaic-powered membrane filtration systems for the provision of potable water is highlighted. In particular, the potential of this technology is investigated for the removal of dissolved trace contaminants such as fluoride, which naturally occurs at extremely high concentrations in the water sources of northern Tanzania. Results from field research demonstrate the importance of matching the best membrane to a particular water source to achieve the highest permeate production that complies with drinking-water guidelines at the lowest specific energy consumption.
UT WOS:000405294000012
ER

PT C
AU Santhosh, A
   Farid, AM
   Youcef-Toumi, K
AF Santhosh, Apoorva
   Farid, Amro M.
   Youcef-Toumi, Kamal
GP IEEE
TI Optimal Network Flow for the Supply Side of the Energy-Water Nexus
ID COGENERATION; POWER; DESALINATION
AB Clean energy and water are two essential resources that any society must securely deliver. Their usage raises sustainability issues and questions of nations' resilience in face of global changes and mega-trends such as population growth, global climate change, and economic growth. Recently, attention has been paid to the infrastructure systems for water distribution and power transmission and the coupling between them in what is commonly known as the energy-water nexus. Although numerous policy and regulatory agencies have addressed the subject, rarely is it holistically addressed in terms of an integrated engineering system for its management, planning, and regulation as an interdisciplinary concern. This work specifically addresses the supply side of this integrated engineering system framework. It takes as its subject the real-time optimal flows in power and water networks. Significant background literature is brought to bear on this topic including the emerging co-dispatch of power and water and the more well established optimizations for power and water networks individually. The work presents a mathematical optimization program for the co-dispatch of the two commodities for three types of plants: power generation plants, co-production facilities and water production plants. Production costs are minimized subject to capacity, demand and transmission constraints and demonstrated on an illustrative example of modest size developed from standard test cases. On a practical basis, the program can be applied directly in middle eastern countries where water and power distribution are typically under the responsibility of a single utility. Furthermore, the program provides a systematic method of achieving optimal results and can serve as a basis for set-points upon which individual plants can implement their optimal control. In so doing, it makes a supply-side contribution to the ongoing grand-challenge of improving the sustainability of the energy-water nexus.
UT WOS:000330646900023
ER

PT J
AU Zheng, SP
   Luo, ZC
   Wu, JW
   Zhang, LY
   He, YJ
AF Zheng, Shupeng
   Luo, Zecheng
   Wu, Jiwu
   Zhang, Lunyuan
   He, Yijian
TI Study on Multivariable Dynamic Matrix Control for a Novel Solar Hybrid
   STIGT System
DE solar energy; power generation; water/heat recovery; MDMC
ID ABSORPTION; SIMULATION; PERFORMANCE; DESIGN
AB To construct a clean and efficient energy system, advanced solar thermal power generation technology is developed, i.e., a solar hybrid STIGT (Steam Injected Gas Turbine) system with near zero water supply. Such a system is conducive to the efficient use of solar energy and water resources, and to improvement of the performance of the overall system. Given that the strong correlation between multiple-input and multiple-output of the new system, the MDMC (Multivariable Dynamic Matrix Control) method is proposed as an alternative to a PID (Proportional-Integral-Derivative) controller to meet requirements in achieving better control characteristics for a complex power system. First, based on MATLAB/Simulink, a dynamic model of the novel system is established. Then it is validated by both experimental and literature data, yielding an error no more than 5%. Subsequently, simulation results demonstrate that the overshoot of output power on MDMC is 1.2%, lower than the 3.4% observed with the PID controller. This improvement in stability, along with a reduction in settling time and peak time by over 50%, highlights the excellent potential of the MDMC in controlling overshoot and settling time in the novel system, while providing enhanced stability, rapidity, and accuracy in the regulation and control of distribution networks.
UT WOS:001191555800001
ER

PT J
AU Al-Saidi, M
   Roach, EL
   Al-Saeedi, BAH
AF Al-Saidi, Mohammad
   Roach, Emma Lauren
   Al-Saeedi, Bilal Ahmed Hassen
TI Conflict Resilience of Water and Energy Supply Infrastructure: Insights
   from Yemen
DE infrastructure resilience; conflict resilience; community-based
   adaptation; water and energy sectors; humanitarian aid; Yemen
ID CLIMATE RESILIENCE; VULNERABILITY; FRAMEWORK; RISK
AB Political instability and conflicts are contemporary problems across the Middle East. They threaten not only basic security, but also infrastructure performance. Supply infrastructure, providing basic services such as water and electricity, has been subjected to damage, capacity deterioration, and the bankruptcy of public providers. Often, in conflict countries such as Yemen, the continuity of basic supply is only possible thanks to adaptation efforts on the community and household levels. This paper examines the conflict resilience of water and energy supply infrastructure in Yemen during the armed conflict 2015-today. It contributes to resilience studies by linking knowledge on state fragility and conflicts, humanitarian aid, and infrastructure resilience. The paper presents adaptation responses of communities and public entities in the water and energy sectors in Yemen and critically evaluates these responses from the perspective of conflict resilience of infrastructure. The gained insights reaffirm the notion about the remarkable adaptive capacities of communities during conflicts and the importance of incorporating community-level adaptation responses into larger efforts to enhance the conflict resilience of infrastructure systems.
UT WOS:000594966900001
ER

PT J
AU Applegate, CJ
   Tien, I
AF Applegate, Chloe Johansen
   Tien, Iris
TI Framework for Probabilistic Vulnerability Analysis of Interdependent
   Infrastructure Systems
ID BAYESIAN NETWORK; RELIABILITY ASSESSMENT; IDENTIFICATION
AB Critical infrastructure systems are deteriorating and experiencing increased cascading failures. In this paper, we propose a new probabilistic framework for modeling interdependent infrastructure networks. As part of this framework, we present our modeling approach and the accompanying sets of algorithms that enable the computationally efficient probabilistic modeling of large infrastructure systems considering interdependencies between networks. The proposed method creates a representative Bayesian network (BN) of the system, which provides exact inferences over the network compared to simulation-based approximations. With the traditional computational limitations of BNs to tens of parent component nodes per child system node, our generalized framework enables computationally efficient BN modeling of systems of, for example, hundreds of component nodes, including component-level performance and interdependent connections across networks. Our approach requires only simple inputs based on the basic component characteristics of location, type, connectivity, and initial failure probabilities. We modeled three types of interdependencies across the systemservice provision, geographic, and access for repair. We combined a minimum link set (MLS) formulation with the idea of supercomponents in order to reduce network complexity without any approximating assumptions. We present algorithms to efficiently identify MLSs and supercomponents, as well as to identify and remove any cyclic dependencies that arise across the network. Once the BN was constructed, we were able to perform exact inference analyses over a range of component state and hazard event scenarios in order to identify vulnerabilities across the network. The main novelty of the paper is to enable the probabilistic assessment of large, complex, interdependent infrastructure systems. We were able to consider performance from the component level and model hundreds of component nodes in a computationally efficient manner without approximating assumptions. We accounted for interdependencies between systems with exact inference results. The model can be used to investigate the potential for cascading failures and to prioritize critical components for repair, replacement, or reinforcement. We applied the proposed methodology and algorithms to the water distribution network in Atlanta, Georgia, and its dependencies with the power system. We validated the model using the results from a recent interdependent outage event.
UT WOS:000450401200005
ER

PT C
AU Zhang, L
   Wang, Y
   Jia, YX
AF Zhang, Lei
   Wang, Yu
   Jia, Yuxiang
BE Yarlagadda, P
   Kim, YH
TI Realization for New Type System of Energy Recovery
DE diesel engine; filter; harmonic; inverter
AB In the performance testing for diesel engine, the load of power testing mostly used water resistance. The power generated by diesel engine all consumed by water resistance. The power and water wasted mostly by this way. Base on the existing mechanical energy recovery system means that the system adopt generator dragged by prime motor to generate recycle electricity, this paper introduces variable current energy recovery system. The power voltage inverts to 10kV voltage, and connects the power plants to the grid. Research shows that the system is low cost, energy saving. And it is achieved the ideal effect in power quality and economic benefit. At present, our company cooperates with a locomotive works for design and construction this system and ancillary plant.
UT WOS:000328521200013
ER

PT J
AU Tang, BJ
   Wu, Y
   Yu, BY
   Li, R
   Wang, XY
AF Tang, Baojun
   Wu, Yun
   Yu, Biying
   Li, Ru
   Wang, Xiangyu
TI Co-current analysis among electricity-water-carbon for the power sector
   in China
DE Low-carbon transition; Water saving; Water-carbon nexus; NET-Power
   model; Power sector; China
ID ENERGY NEXUS; GENERATION; SCENARIOS; INDUSTRY; CLIMATE; DECARBONIZATION;
   VULNERABILITY; ADAPTATION; IMPACTS; OPTIONS
AB China's power sector consumes large amounts of water for its cooling every year, which has increased water stress in many regions and caused the vulnerability in electricity generation. Current plans for power sector mainly focus on the clean and low-carbon development, while it is unclear how to reconcile CO2-reduction target with water-saving target. In this paper, an optimization model named NET-Power (National Energy Technology-Power) is developed to simulate the deployment of power generation technologies, and to further answer whether there is a conflict or not between water-saving target and CO2-reduction target in the power sector. The result shows that peaking carbon emissions before 2030 in the power sector may increase the water consumption by 34.85Gt. In addition. to further meeting the water constraint on the basis of peaking carbon emissions would lead to a higher carbon intensity of thermal power. These findings indicate that low-carbon transition will cause significant water-carbon contradiction, which mainly lies in nuclear power technology and dry-cooling technology. Finally. the optimal technology layout path that can meet the dual constraints of water and carbon for the power sector in China is proposed. (C) 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000579365600047
ER

PT J
AU Lubinski, KS
   Lubinski, BJ
   Whittier, JB
AF Lubinski, Kenneth S.
   Lubinski, Benjamin J.
   Whittier, Joanna B.
TI Many hands: Sharing the work and benefits of stream restoration in the
   Fishers and Farmers Partnership
AB Agriculture in the Upper Mississippi River basin (UMRB) has greatly boosted production and regional economic growth over the past century. However, this success has brought unintended negative impacts to streams and aquatic life in the basin, including increased sedimentation, nutrient loading, eutrophication, and hypoxia. Additionally, thousands of miles of streams have been channelized, impounded, or altered for irrigation, flood control, power, water supply, and transportation. The Fishers and Farmers Partnership (hereafter, "Partnership") was founded in 2010 to address longstanding challenges in stream habitat degradation and limited success from traditional restoration approaches (i.e., scattered, short-term, site-scale projects with limited biological monitoring and reporting). The mission of the Partnership is to support locally led conservation projects that add value to farms while restoring aquatic habitat and native fish populations. The effort unites fisheries professionals, farmers, and conservationists to restore stream health, while supporting sustainable agricultural practices. Emphasizing voluntary, nonregulatory solutions, this partnership focuses on engaging farmers directly in the planning, implementation, and long-term maintenance of fish habitat conservation projects. Peer-to-peer farmer workshops and a tailored communication strategy have played key roles in expanding engagement and fostering trust. The Partnership has approved 41 projects across 19 subbasins, addressing instream and upland restoration needs through practices such as oxbow restoration, bank stabilization, riparian buffers, and nutrient reduction. Lessons learned highlight the importance of respect, independence, and local knowledge in gaining farmer support, as well as the necessity of scalable strategies to extend restoration impacts basinwide. The Partnership demonstrates that shared stewardship between fishers and farmers can deliver ecological and community benefits, building a foundation for long-term restoration success.
UT WOS:001533467300001
ER

PT J
AU Kafaei, M
   Sedighizadeh, D
   Sedighizadeh, M
   Fini, AS
AF Kafaei, Mostafa
   Sedighizadeh, Davoud
   Sedighizadeh, Mostafa
   Fini, Alireza Sheikhi
TI A two-stage IGDT/TPEM model for optimal operation of a smart building: A
   case study of Gheshm Island, Iran
ID RENEWABLE ENERGY; POWER-SYSTEM; DESALINATION; OPTIMIZATION; MANAGEMENT;
   STORAGE; MICROGRIDS; DESIGN; UNIT; RECOVERY
AB Using poly-generation schemes based on energy hub (EH) concepts is one of the new ways to efficiently supply energy (electrical/thermal/cooling/water) demanded by smart buildings equipped with building energy management system (BEMS). Regarding severe uncertainties pertaining to renewable generation and demands, BEMS is faced with challenges to optimally operate EH during day-ahead. The present study proposes a stochastic dayahead optimization model for BEMS to minimize the operation costs and emissions under a number of technoeconomic constraints considering extreme uncertainties related to generations, demands, and prices. The proposed grid-connected EH includes combined cooling, heat, power (CCHP) system as dispatchable generation, and wind turbine (WT) and photovoltaic (PV) as non-dispatchable generations. To enhance the reliability of energy and water supply, two energy storage systems (ESSs), namely battery energy storage (BESS) and thermal energy storage systems (TESS) and one water storage tank (WST) have been installed in EH. Moreover, to improve flexibility of the proposed EH, it utilizes a seawater desalination (SWD) with reverse osmosis (RO) technology as an active load and an organic Rankine cycle (ORC) as a new technology for generating electrical power by means of thermal power. Also, it considers a demand response program as time of use (TOU) to enhance the flexibility of the operation. The proposed stochastic model is solved by a two-stage algorithm. The first stage formulates the uncertainties of the demands and renewable generations by two-point estimate method (TPEM) while the second stage models the extreme uncertainty of the gas price by information gap decision theory (IGDT) method as well as economically dispatching the generations and storages with risk-averse and risk-seeker strategies. The efficacy of the proposed model is evaluated on a smart commercial building in Gheshm located not far away from the southern coast of Iran in Persian Gulf. It is seen that the total cost of the EH equipped with a WST reduced by 16.55% compared to the one without a WST.
UT WOS:000677532900005
ER

PT C
AU Soto, MA
   Fonseca, AN
   Sanhueza, CA
   Arias-Esquivel, Y
   Verdugo, LJ
   Hueichapan, DS
AF Soto, Matias Alegria
   Fonseca, Alex Navas
   Sanhueza, Constanza Ahumada
   Arias-Esquivel, Yeiner
   Verdugo, Luis Jimenez
   Hueichapan, Doris Saez
GP IEEE
TI Distributed Secondary Control with Economic Dispatch of Energy-Water
   Microgrids
DE Distributed secondary control; energy-water optimal dispatch;
   water-energy co-optimization; microgrids; energy-water microgrids; and
   frequency restoration
ID CONTROL STRATEGY
AB Due to global warming and population growth, preserving and guaranteeing clean water and electricity access has become harder. For this purpose, Energy-water microgrids (EWMGs) have been proposed to manage both resources efficiently. In these systems, resource management is traditionally performed at the tertiary control level, on large time windows, whereas integration of renewable energy sources requires faster controllers. Several works proposed moving energy cost management to the secondary control level as a solution, achieving quick responses to perturbations. Inspired by this idea, We propose to solve the water-energy co-optimization at a secondary control level timescale, using the Karush-Khun-Tacker (KKT) conditions of the centralized economic dispatch (ED) of an EWMG. The proposal is validated through simulation, achieving an 11% operational cost reduction. While our simulations were executed on only one type of EWMG topology, the approach presented can be generalized to any topology.
UT WOS:001482694802080
ER

PT J
AU Reis, MML
   Guillen, JAV
   Gallo, WLR
AF Reis, Max Mauro L.
   Guillen, Jorge Alejandro V.
   Gallo, Waldyr L. R.
TI Off-design performance analysis and optimization of the power production
   by an organic Rankine cycle coupled with a gas turbine in an offshore
   oil platform
DE Organic Rankine cycle; Optimization; Off-design performance; Carbon
   dioxide reduction; Waste heat recovery; Economic analysis
ID WASTE HEAT-RECOVERY; ORC COMBINED-CYCLE; WORKING FLUIDS; CONVERSION;
   ALKANES; WATER; COST
AB The organic Rankine cycle has been widely explored for energy recovery from several heat sources. In this paper, the maximization of the energy recovery of the exhaust gases from the General Electric LM 2500 gas turbines in a floating production offloading unit is studied in order to meet the demands of heat (pressurized hot water) and electricity over oil production lifetime. An off-design model of the system is developed to check the viability of an organic Rankine cycle under dynamic operating conditions. Energy and exergy analysis of the proposed system are conducted to determine main irreversibilities and performance characteristics of the system and, finally, the economic benefits of the energy recovery system application are discussed. The organic Rankine cycle is very flexible in the heat recovery in dynamic demand conditions, contributing up to 20.3% in electricity generation, which causes an increase in overall system efficiency of up to 11.3% and up to 18.3% in the utilization factor, as well as an average reduction of 22.0% in carbon dioxide emissions in the floating production offloading unit electricity generation process. The exergy efficiency of the system reaches 55.8% and the heat recovery devices are the most irreversible equipment in organic Rankine cycle, contributing up to 68% of the total exergy destroyed. The economic analysis demonstrated the attractiveness of the organic Rankine cycle implementation, allowing a net present value to Brazil's current economic scenario of up to USD 16.8 million.
UT WOS:000484881400079
ER

PT J
AU Huang, XY
   Chen, WJ
   Huang, GR
AF Huang, Xiuyi
   Chen, Wenjie
   Huang, Guoru
TI Modeling and analysis of urban critical infrastructure dynamic cascading
   failures in urban floods based on Simulink
DE Urban flooding; Critical infrastructure system; Cascade effect;
   Spatio-Temporal Analysis; Community
ID HYBRID SYSTEMS; POWER-SYSTEMS; SIMULATION; RESILIENCE; COMPLEX
AB Cities are severely impacted by urban extreme flood disasters, which can trigger cascading failures across critical infrastructure systems (CISs) like electricity, water, and telecommunications. This study models urban infrastructure dynamic cascading failures using MATLAB Simulink, with Guangzhou's central area as a case study. The local electricity, water supply, and telecommunication systems were modeled as interconnected modules based on functional supply-demand relationships. A 500-year rainfall event combined with a 500-year tidal level was simulated using InfoWorks ICM to drive the cascading model. The disaster was analyzed from four perspectives: system performance, facility anomaly causes, failure chain evolution, and spatiotemporal impacts on communities. System performances for electricity, water, and wireless communication were 63.1 %, 63.2 %, and 21.8 % of normal levels at the end of the rain, dropping to 33.6 %, 3.2 %, and 2.7 % respectively two days later. The spatial inconsistency between flood inundation and the effects of CISs service reduction was discovered, providing a novel perspective for urban flood emergency management. This scalable CIS cascading failure model can serve as a valuable reference framework for other locations.
UT WOS:001694400100001
ER

PT J
AU Sahin, ES
   Bayram, IS
   Koc, M
AF Sahin, Ebubekir S.
   Bayram, I. Safak
   Koc, Muammer
TI Demand side management opportunities, framework, and implications for
   sustainable development in resource-rich countries: Case study Qatar
DE Demand side management framework; Resource-rich countries; Sustainable
   consumption behaviors; Survey; Cleaner production
ID ELECTRICITY MARKETS; CONSUMPTION; CHALLENGES; WATER; PREVALENCE;
   HOUSEHOLDS; EMISSIONS; PROFILES; SYSTEMS; CHINA
AB Over the last decades, global consumption of energy and environmental resources have been rapidly increasing due to advances in the production and transportation of goods, as well as reduced barriers to global trade markets. This trend raised sustainable consumption issues because of inefficient and wasteful use of resources, especially in resource-rich countries with high purchasing power and subsidized tariffs offered to residents. It is also well-known that resources abundance tends to lower financial development and limit productivity growth and social development. On the other hand, there is a growing acceptance that supply-side policies need to be complemented by demand-side management to support sustainable cleaner production and remedy aforementioned adverse impacts. In this study, we present the results of an investigation on demand-side management (DSM) opportunities and a framework developed for Qatar as a representative of an emerging resource-rich countries and discuss implications for cleaner production. The rationale behind is that Qatar is a commodity-dependent developing country, who, during the last five years, has experienced a population growth of 35%, and an increase in electricity and water demand of 46% and 35%, respectively. Similarly, during the same period, the national vehicle fleet has grown by more than twofold. These figures have ranked Qatar at the top of the per-capita energy, carbon, and water consumption list in the world and increased environmental vulnerability and reduced climate resilience. To that end, the objectives of this study are to: (1) construct a DSM framework tailored to the needs of resource-rich country like Qatar from economic, social, environmental, and technical aspects; (2) present, analyze, and discuss the results of a survey that reveals the perceptions, attitudes, and responses of local residents towards the applicability of DSM policies; and (3) discuss methods and solutions to achieve cleaner energy consumption. The conducted survey covered electricity, water, and transportation sectors and showed that residents have low awareness about their consumption habits, but they have high willingness to reduce their consumption levels. In the last section, we present the survey results and discussions as a reference for policy-makers to promote the most promising DSM options in Qatar. To the best of authors' knowledge, this is the first survey-based study conducted in the Gulf Cooperation Council region where a significant portion of world's oil and natural gas resources are extracted. Therefore, the results could provide insights to other resource-rich countries with similar characteristics to devise more efficient policies for promoting welfare-enhancing and sustainable consumption behavior. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000489275900068
ER

PT J
AU Dehghani, MS
   Sherali, HD
AF Dehghani, Mohammad Saied
   Sherali, Hanif D.
TI A resource allocation approach for managing critical network-based
   infrastructure systems
DE resource allocation; maintenance; critical infrastructure; risk;
   resiliency
ID DISASTER INVESTMENT DECISIONS; REPLACEMENT POLICIES; MAINTENANCE POLICY;
   PARALLEL SYSTEMS; OPTIMIZATION; FAILURE; MANAGEMENT; CAPABILITY;
   DEPENDENCE; MODEL
AB In recent years, many resource allocation models have been developed to protect critical infrastructure by maximizing system resiliency or minimizing its vulnerability to disasters or disruptions. However, these are often computationally intensive and require simplifying assumptions and approximations. In this study, we develop a robust and representative, yet tractable, model for optimizing maintenance planning of generic network-structured systems (transportation, water, power, communication). The proposed modeling framework examines models that consider both linear and nonlinear objective functions and enhances their structure through suitable manipulations. Moreover, the designed models inherently capture the network topography and the stochastic nature of disruptions and can be applied to network-structured systems where performance is assessed based on network flow efficiency and mobility. The developed models are applied to the Istanbul highway system in order to assess their relative computational effectiveness and robustness using several test cases that consider single- and multiple-treatment types, and the problems are solved on the NEOS server using different available software. The results demonstrate that our models are capable of obtaining optimal solutions within a very short time. Furthermore, the linear model is shown to yield a good approximation to the nonlinear model (it determined solutions within 0.3% of optimality, on average). Managerial insights are provided in regard to the optimal policies obtained, which generally appear to favor selecting fewer links and applying a higher quality treatment to them.
UT WOS:000382678400003
ER

PT J
AU Ademola, A
   Adebukola, D
   Adeola, CS
   Cajetan, A
   Christiana, U
AF Ademola, Adeagbo
   Adebukola, Daramola
   Adeola, Carim-Sanni
   Cajetan, Akujobi
   Christiana, Ukpong
TI Effects of natural disasters on social and economic well being: A study
   in Nigeria
DE Disaster; Impact; Urban; Rural; Gender
ID VULNERABILITY; INCOME; IMPACTS
AB The study set out to assess the effects of natural disasters on households' livelihoods, their assets and other aspects of well being in Nigeria. As expected, there were differential impacts on respondents from natural disaster occurrences.
   Floods were found to be the most common natural disaster type in a study carried out in six states of the country. Findings from the survey conducted on 1116 respondents show that a significant proportion of respondents' experienced severe negative effects on their dwelling units (47%), household assets (41%) and on children's schooling (45%). Others suffered severe health related impacts, while access to utilities such as electricity and water supply was also severely constrained for some. About half of the respondents from rural areas were displaced as a result of natural disaster events. Children formed the highest number among those displaced.
   The damage/loss/replacement assessment shows that respondents spent a little above N200,000 on the average to replace losses and fix damages incurred from natural disaster impacts. Urban/rural differentials show that mean spending to replace losses was higher for rural respondents, although these also had lower average earnings. Male/female analysis of natural disaster impacts shows that males had a higher proportion of spending. The chi-square test to analyze significant differences in level of spending to fix damages show significant differences for urban/rural groups, as well as for male/female groups (P < 0.05).
   The authors suggest the need for insurance schemes with counterpart government funding to ensure speedy recovery from natural disaster impacts for all categories of people. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000384837100001
ER

PT J
AU Avci, I
   Özarpa, C
   Aydin, MA
AF Avci, Isa
   Ozarpa, Cevat
   Aydin, Muhammed Ali
TI Mitigating global warming in smart energy grids via energy supply
   security for critical energy infrastructures
DE energy supply security; emissions; smart grid; renewable energy grids;
   natural gas
ID VULNERABILITY; OIL
AB Problems in energy supply security threaten smart grids and cities, critical infrastructures and industrial control systems, and directly affect the economy. This study aims to examine the increase in energy supply, energy supply security risks, global warming, the importance of renewable energy sources, and environmental factors in energy infrastructure security. Also, a security framework has been proposed for critical energy infrastructures such as electricity, water, natural gas, coal, oil, renewable energy, and nuclear energy sources, taking into account the key risk factors of energy supply security and environmental impact sources. In the proposed framework, 17 different types of risks have been defined due to the reasons for natural gas, electricity, coal, oil, nuclear, and renewable energy sources. Risks concerned energy supply security and environmental impacts are calculated according to energy sources and it is determined that renewable energy sources have less risk (9%) than other energy types, electricity (13%) and natural gas (15%).
UT WOS:000720050300003
ER

PT J
AU Singh, NK
   Wemple, BC
   Bomblies, A
   Ricketts, TH
AF Singh, Nitin K.
   Wemple, Beverley C.
   Bomblies, Arne
   Ricketts, Taylor H.
TI Simulating stream response to floodplain connectivity and revegetation
   from reach to watershed scales: Implications for stream management
DE Green infrastructure; Stream restoration; Ecosystem services; Floodplain
   alteration; Flood mitigation; Channel incision
ID RIVER RESTORATION; ECOSYSTEM SERVICES; POWER; BIODIVERSITY; VARIABILITY;
   PHOSPHORUS; PROTECTION; VEGETATION; CORRIDORS; GEOMETRY
AB Natural-infrastructures (e.g., floodplains) can offer multiple ecosystem services (ES), including flood-resilience and water quality improvement. In order to maintain these ES, state and non-profit organizations consider various stream interventions, including increased floodplain connectivity and revegetation. However, the effect of these interventions is rarely quantified. We build a hydraulic model to simulate the influence of above-mentioned interventions on stream power and water depth during 5 yr and 100 yr flood return-intervals for two watersheds in Vermont, USA. Simulated revegetation of floodplains increased water depth and decreased stream power, whereas increasing connectivity resulted in decline of both responses. Combination of increased connectivity and floodplain revegetation showed greatest reduction in stream-power suggesting that interventions may influence stream response in diverse ways. Across all three interventions, 14% and 48% of altered reaches showed increase in stream power and water depth over baseline, indicating that interventions may lead to undesirable outcomes and their apparent effectiveness can vary with the measure chosen for evaluation. Interventions also influenced up to 16% of unaltered reaches (i.e., in which no interventions were implemented), indicating the consequences of interventions can spread both up and downstream. Multivariate analysis showed that up to 50% of variance in stream response to interventions is attributable to characteristics of reaches, indicating that these characteristics could mediate the effectiveness of interventions. This study offers a framework to evaluate the potential ES provided by natural infrastructure. All stream interventions involve tradeoffs among responses and between target and non-target areas, so careful evaluation is therefore needed to compare benefits and costs among interventions. Such assessments can lead to more effective management of stream-floodplain ecosystems both in Vermont and elsewhere. (C) 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000432475300070
ER

PT J
AU Hosseini, SR
   Amidpour, M
   Behbahaninia, A
AF Hosseini, Seyed Reza
   Amidpour, Majid
   Behbahaninia, Ali
TI Thermoeconomic analysis with reliability consideration of a combined
   power and multi stage flash desalination plant
DE Power plant; Multi stage flash desalination; Thermoeconomic; TRR method;
   Reliability
ID DUAL-PURPOSE POWER; MSF DESALINATION; OPTIMIZATION; DESIGN; AVAILABILITY
AB This paper deals with the effects of equipment reliability consideration to thermoeconomic analysis of a combined power and multi stage flash water desalination plant. Exergy and thermoeconomic models of the considered process units are developed and presented in this work. An economic model of the system is developed according to the Total Revenue Requirement (TRR) method. This application can be very useful, either for the plant management in order to achieve a cost-effective operation, or for a better plant design. Equipment reliability using the state-space and the continuous Markov method is incorporated in thermoeconomic analysis to improve the cost values. The results show that the power and water costs with reliability consideration increased 4.1% and 6.4%, respectively. Additionally, the sensitivity analysis shows the relationship between the production cost and the system availability which can help the designer to decide how to improve the profit or competitiveness. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000295061100057
ER

PT J
AU CARR, SM
   SAVAGE, GJ
AF CARR, SM
   SAVAGE, GJ
TI A UNIFIED METHODOLOGY FOR RELIABILITY ASSESSMENT OF SYSTEMS WITH ACTIVE
   REDUNDANCY
ID 2ND MOMENT ANALYSIS; STRUCTURAL SYSTEMS; COMPUTER NETWORK; INDEX
AB The reliability of engineering systems is usually improved by the inclusion of redundant components in the design. Often, the redundant components must all contribute actively to the operation of the system. Examples include structures, water and power distribution systems, and communication networks. For these systems, the failure of each successive component defines a different topological configuration for the system. A reliable system should perform adequately in as many of these configurations as possible. Consequently, the reliability of a system with active redundancy depends on two factors: the probability, considering component failures, that a functional system topology is maintained; and the probability of adequate system performance in each functional configuration. To date, no single reliability measure exists which combines both of these factors, but such a measure would be useful for comparison of alternative redundant designs. Current methods for reliability assessment have been tailored to the purposes of individual engineering disciplines and reflect the inherent physical properties of specific types of systems. However, an increasing need for reliability analysis of large, complex, multidisciplinary systems requires a more general and unified approach. In this paper, we propose a unified, model-based methodology for reliability-based design which provides a single, second moment reliability index for systems with active redundancy. The reliability index of a redundant pipe network is calculated as an illustrative example.
UT WOS:A1991FN51600005
ER

PT C
AU Al-Abri, M
   Ellithy, K
   Al-Ghafri, A
AF Al-Abri, M
   Ellithy, K
   Al-Ghafri, A
GP IEE
TI Transient stability study of interconnected power system of North Oman
DE transient stability; power-flow; MHEW power system model; time domain
   simulations
ID VOLTAGE REGULATION
AB Transient stability of power system has been and continues to be of major concern in system operation. In order to provide the reliability required by dependence on continuous electric service. It is necessary that interconnected power system be designed to be stable under any conceivable disturbance. This paper presents the power flow and transient stability analysis of the northern interconnected power system for the Ministry of Housing, Electricity and Water (MHEW) of Sultanate of Oman. The system model has been developed for power flow and transient stability analysis. Time-domain simulations have been performed under different major disturbances for the summer peak load of year 2002. The tuning of the excitation system parameters to enhance system stability has been considered in the analysis.
UT WOS:000234294200018
ER

PT J
AU Meng, FL
   Gao, MM
   Ding, TP
   Yilmaz, G
   Ong, WL
   Ho, GW
AF Meng, Fan Lu
   Gao, Minmin
   Ding, Tianpeng
   Yilmaz, Gamze
   Ong, Wei Li
   Ho, Ghim Wei
TI Modular Deformable Steam Electricity Cogeneration System with
   Photothermal, Water, and Electrochemical Tunable Multilayers
DE integration; modular; photothermal; steam generation; thermogalvanic
ID HIGHLY EFFICIENT; SOLAR; OPPORTUNITIES; EVAPORATION; GENERATION;
   MEMBRANE; SILICON; SPRAY
AB Capturing solar energy for thermal conversion in a highly efficient manner for steam-electricity cogeneration is particularly opportune in the context of optimal solar energy utilization for concurrent water-energy harvesting. Herein, an integrative photothermal evaporator/thermogalvanic cell with the desired optical, heat, water, and electrochemical management for synergistic steam-electricity production is reported. Versatile layer by-layer assembly is employed to integrate a hydrogel/metal-oxide/polymer into a multilayer film with individually addressable thickness, composition, and structure. As such, the ultimate integrative multilayer film cell demonstrates a unified high surface area and conductive electrodes, broadband absorption, rapid water suction-ion exchange, and thermal insulation properties. Thus, the designed cell immensely suppresses heat losses, achieving a high solar thermal conversion efficiency of 91.4% and maximum power outputs of approximate to 1.6 mW m(-2). Additionally, the self-floating, deformable, modular integral device presents appealing attributes such as salt-rejection for viable seawater desalination, high mechanical stability, and resilience to demanding operating conditions, and configurable on-demand/point-of-use tandem structure to maximize clean water and power generation value per area. This integrated strategy may provide prospective opportunities to reduce dependence on fossil fuels and freshwater inputs and solutions for renewable and decentralized clean water and electricity.
UT WOS:000543741200001
ER

PT J
AU Yang, QJ
   Xie, ZQ
   Xu, JR
   Zhang, YF
   Sun, YH
   Cheng, W
   Wang, JX
   Liu, YF
   Yuan, ZY
   Li, YF
   Gan, CY
   Zhou, HB
AF Yang, Qijia
   Xie, Zhiqiang
   Xu, Jiarui
   Zhang, Yuanfang
   Sun, Yihao
   Cheng, Wei
   Wang, Junxiao
   Liu, Yifei
   Yuan, Zhiyong
   Li, Yufei
   Gan, Chenyang
   Zhou, Haibin
TI Life-line assurance in the urbanization process: revealing the coupled
   safety resilience of municipal underground pipelines and its influential
   characteristics
DE Municipal Underground Pipelines; Resilience Evaluation; DANP; GIS
   Quantitative Expression; Spatial Autocorrelation
ID INFRASTRUCTURE
AB As a critical medium for urban energy transmission, frequent incidents in Municipal Underground Pipelines (MUPs) amid climate change have become a challenge in China's urbanization. However, the Coupled safety resilience of MUPs (CSR-MUPs) and its spatial characteristics under the interactions of different types of MUPs remain unclear. Accordingly, this study analyzes four major types of MUPs-gas, electricity, water supply, and drainage-in Panlong and Chenggong, two urban areas representing old and new districts in Kunming, China. A Coupled safety resilience of MUPs evaluation framework (DANP-CSR-MUPs) is developed based on vulnerability, resilience, resistance, and maintenance. The resilience distribution is then mapped, highlighting its spatial characteristics. It was found that (1) the electricity pipeline had the highest coupling weight (0.27) and the water supply the lowest (0.22). Despite the distinct nature of their impacts, the influence of different MUPs was relatively similar, considering potential errors. (2) The new urban area exhibits higher CSR-MUPs than the old urban area, while the old urban area is more exposed to vulnerability risks. (3) The Panlong study area shows a stronger spatial clustering effect (19.68% of the area) with low resilience values, whereas the clustering effect in Chenggong is weaker, with the resilience distribution being stable and evenly spread. This study identifies the potential impact relationships and safety risks within the MUP system and the two distinct MUP resilience patterns in Kunming's new and old urban areas, providing a basis for decision-making to enhance the resilience of municipal infrastructure in urban areas.
UT WOS:001853203700001
ER

PT J
AU Niaki, AA
   Jamil, M
AF Niaki, Ali Akbarzadeh
   Jamil, Mohsin
TI An efficient hydrogen-based water-power strategy to alleviate the number
   of transmission switching within smart grid
DE Transmission switching; Congestion management; Bender's decomposition;
   Water-power system; Uncertainty; Security constrained unit commitment
   (SCUC)
ID ACTING DEMAND RESPONSE; CONGESTION MANAGEMENT; TRANSACTIVE CONTROL; WIND
   POWER; RELIABILITY; SYSTEMS; ENERGY; MODEL
AB The main advantage of Transmission Switching (TS) is decreasing the cost function in a power system. Using TS requires a high number of transmission switching in the system, which can cause some problems in the long run. These problems include decreased lifetime and failure of circuit breakers (CBs), higher repair and maintenance costs, line outage, increased probability of load shedding, and lower reliability of the system. In this paper, congestion management is utilized in the unit commitment problem constrained to the security with the TS to decrease the number of switching. This methodology will resolve the mentioned problems and improve the overall security of the system. Besides, a grid-connected water-power package is suggested to make relaxation for the line congestion which results in the alleviation of the transmission switching. The proposed water-power system is restructured regarding the fuel cell based renewable resource considering the hydrogen tank. Indeed, such a restructured system utilizes the water grid to generate the hydrogen and then power with the aim of linking the electrical grid. Also, on the account of being uncertain of some parameters coming in the electrical grid, an uncertainty-based UT function is addressed to handle uncertainty impacts on the grid's performance. To make awareness-raising, we carry out an outage of the generators as a different contingency scenario of the problem. Finally, the introduced model is testified on two 6-bus and 118-bus grids and solved by Bender's decomposition method. The simulations are performed in GAMS software to confirm the introduced approach effectiveness. Inferred from the results that the proposed strategy can help the grid operator lessen the line congestion up to an acceptable level.
UT WOS:001243340500001
ER

PT J
AU Kang, WH
   Kliese, A
AF Kang, Won-Hee
   Kliese, Alyce
TI A rapid reliability estimation method for directed acyclic lifeline
   networks with statistically dependent components
DE Earthquake hazards; Lifeline network; Non-simulation-based method;
   Statistical correlation; System reliability
ID RECURSIVE DECOMPOSITION ALGORITHM; BINARY DECISION DIAGRAMS;
   SIMULATION-BASED METHOD; SYSTEM RELIABILITY; TERMINAL RELIABILITY;
   GROUND MOTIONS; RISK
AB Lifeline networks, such as transportation, water supply, sewers, telecommunications, and electrical and gas networks, are essential elements for the economic and societal functions of urban areas, but their components are highly susceptible to natural or man-made hazards. In this context, it is essential to provide effective pre-disaster hazard mitigation strategies and prompt post-disaster risk management efforts based on rapid system reliability assessment. This paper proposes a rapid reliability estimation method for node-pair connectivity analysis of lifeline networks especially when the network components are statistically correlated. Recursive procedures are proposed to compound all network nodes until they become a single super node representing the connectivity between the origin and destination nodes. The proposed method is applied to numerical network examples and benchmark interconnected power and water networks in Memphis, Shelby County. The connectivity analysis results show the proposed method's reasonable accuracy and remarkable efficiency as compared to the Monte Carlo simulations. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000331684100007
ER

PT J
AU Luo, QZ
   He, A
   Xu, SH
   Miao, MY
   Liu, T
   Cao, B
   Shan, KP
   Tang, B
   Hu, XJ
   Huang, L
   Jiang, HF
AF Luo, Qizhao
   He, An
   Xu, Shihao
   Miao, Mengyu
   Liu, Tong
   Cao, Bin
   Shan, Kunpeng
   Tang, Bin
   Hu, Xuejiao
   Huang, Lu
   Jiang, Haifeng
TI Utilization of low-grade heat for desalination and electricity
   generation through thermal osmosis energy conversion process
DE Low-grade heat energy; Desalination; Electrokinetic effect; Thermal
   osmosis energy conversion
ID MEMBRANE DISTILLATION
AB Harvesting low-grade heat energy for simultaneous desalination and power generation is a meaningful and valuable work to address the energy and fresh water crisis. Here we report a novel hybrid system for cogeneration of fresh water and electricity by coupling thermal osmosis unit and an electrokinetic power generator. Pressured fresh water will be produced in the confined cold side by the temperature difference across the hydrophobic PTFE membrane, based on the principle of membrane distillation. Pressured driven fresh water flows into the electrokinetic module and through the microchannels from one reservoir to the other, electricity will then be generated based on the ion selection effect at the microchannel walls. Fresh water production rate of 18.46 kg m- 2 h-1 and output power density of 1.12 W m- 2 were simultaneously obtained by this device at a temperature difference of 50 degrees C. This study combined the recovery of latent heat energy and desalination, which may expand the application approaches of low-grade heat energy recovery.
UT WOS:000871058100003
ER

PT J
AU Esmalian, A
   Dong, SJ
   Mostafavi, A
AF Esmalian, Amir
   Dong, Shangjia
   Mostafavi, Ali
TI Susceptibility curves for humans: Empirical survival models for
   determining household-level disturbances from hazards-induced
   infrastructure service disruptions
DE Survival analysis; Susceptibility curves; Resilience and reliability;
   Infrastructure services; Social systems; Community resilience
AB In natural hazard engineering, fragility curves are used to determine the likelihood of damage to an engineered system under different magnitudes of hazard intensity. Analogous to fragility curves for engineered systems, survival models developed in the present study determine the extent of disturbances for shelter-in-place households caused by infrastructure service disruptions during disasters. This study used empirical data from household surveys collected in the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey, Hurricane Florence, and Hurricane Michael to create empirical survival models for determining household-level disturbances related to eight infrastructure services: power, water, communication, sewer systems, transportation, solid waste collection, grocery stores, and healthcare facilities. The survival models considered various influencing factors, such as sociodemographic factors, previous experience, risk perception, and access to resources to determine what percentage of households in a community would experience considerable hardship under varying durations of service disruptions. The developed curves suggested that although the susceptibility patterns are similar for short durations of infrastructure service disruptions, prolonged service disruptions pose varying levels of disturbance in different communities based on the household characteristics and contextual factors. Susceptibility curves could be implemented with current tools for assessing the reliability and resilience of infrastructure systems to promote understanding of the societal impacts that disruptions in these services pose to the affected communities. The resulting empirical survival models provide necessary tools and insights for determining the susceptibility of communities to disruptions of various infrastructure services during disasters. Hence, the outcomes of this study provide new empirical insights and models enabling decision-makers to integrate human-centric dimensions into infrastructure retrofit and restoration processes to more equitably reduce societal impacts of service disruptions. Such human-centric approaches enable designing socially resilient cities and contribute to designing sustainable infrastructure systems.
UT WOS:000636156600004
ER

PT J
AU Ni, L
   Lau, SK
   Li, H
   Zhang, T
   Stansbury, JS
   Shi, J
   Neal, J
AF Ni, L.
   Lau, S. K.
   Li, H.
   Zhang, T.
   Stansbury, J. S.
   Shi, Jonathan
   Neal, Jill
TI Feasibility study of a localized residential grey water energy-recovery
   system
DE Energy management systems; Energy-recovery; Heat pumps; Heat recovery
   units; Water heaters; Grey water
ID AIR-CONDITIONER; WASTE-WATER; HEATER
AB In order to improve the overall efficiency of building energy usage, a grey water energy-recovery system, which adopted a multiple-function heat pump system, was proposed for domestic water heating, and space heating and cooling of buildings. A numerical model has been developed for investigation of annual energy and water consumptions of the proposed system and the conventional building energy system with gas furnace space heating, package air-conditioning, and electricity water heater for hot water heating. Based on a case study of a typical residential house with four family members and three bedrooms in New York, NY, results show that the overall source energy consumption with the proposed system decreases 33.9% for space heating and cooling and hot water heating, and also the potable water consumption reduces 27.2% compared with those of the conventional system. An extended study with fourteen other cities was performed in various climate zones in the U.S. Among these 15 cities, the savings in source energy and potable water consumption have ranges of 17%-57.9% and 15%-34.1%, respectively. The results also show the proposed system can provide substantial energy and potable water savings, particularly with moderate outdoor temperature. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000302670200008
ER

PT C
AU Kermani, M
   Wallerand, AS
   Kantor, ID
   Maréchal, F
AF Kermani, Maziar
   Wallerand, A. S.
   Kantor, Ivan D.
   Marechal, Francois
BE Espuna, A
   Graells, M
   Puigjaner, L
TI A Hybrid Methodology for Combined Interplant Heat, Water, and Power
   Integration
DE linear programming; superstructure optimization; industrial symbiosis
ID FIXED FLOW-RATE; ALLOCATION; NETWORKS; SYSTEMS; DESIGN
AB The growing desire to improve resource efficiency and environmental impact of industrial processes is directly linked to optimal management of heat, mass and power flows. The concept of industrial symbiosis tackles this issue by proposing interplant heat recovery and resource transfer which can bring economical and environmental benefits to each party. A comprehensive methodology is required which can easily be incorporated in the planning of industrial clusters. Therefore, a generic hybrid mixed integer linear programming superstructure has been developed to address simultaneous heat, water, and power optimization in interplant operations. Additional concepts are included in the previously proposed water network superstructure (Kermani et al., 2017) to account for the issues related to interplant heat and mass exchange. A cold utility superstructure is included in the water network while a steam network superstructure is modified to better represent the feedwater heaters and heat recovery opportunities. The proposed methodology is applied to an industrial case study. Results exhibit a large potential for synergies among industrial sites, even in disparate sectors, and emphasize the importance of a generic approach.
UT WOS:000432425200121
ER

PT C
AU Perelman, G
   Navon, A
   Housh, M
   Ostfeld, A
AF Perelman, Gal
   Navon, Aviad
   Housh, Mashor
   Ostfeld, Avi
BE Ahmad, S
   Struck, S
   Drummond, C
TI Adjustable Robust Optimization for Integrated Power and Water Systems
   under Uncertainty
ID DEMAND RESPONSE; FLOW
AB Water distribution systems (WDS) and power distribution systems (PDS) are strongly connected and mutually affect each other. Recently, several studies suggested accounting for this dependency to enhance the overall efficiency of the two critical systems. However, in these studies, the uncertainty inherent in the two systems got less attention. Here, we emphasize the uncertainty modeling by using robust optimization (RO) and adjustable robust optimization (ARO) to co-optimize the day-ahead scheduling of an integrated PDS-WDS. In this problem, we consider the uncertainty in both power loads and water demands and its impact on the operational strategies of the coupled system. Using RO and ARO, we can derive the Pareto frontier between operation cost and system reliability. Our results suggest that for high levels of reliability, the ARO outperforms the RO approach, as it can achieve a high level of reliability with lower operation costs.
UT WOS:001587166000090
ER

PT C
AU Dong, X
   Zhang, J
   Li, QM
   Hou, J
   Liu, YZ
AF Dong, Xiao
   Zhang, Jing
   Li, Qianmu
   Hou, Jun
   Liu, Yonzong
GP IEEE
TI Security risk control of water power generation industrial control
   network based on attack and defense map
DE Security risk control; defense strategy; attack and defense map
AB With the latest development of hydroelectric power generation system, the industrial control network system of hydroelectric power generation has undergone the transformation from the dedicated network, using proprietary protocols to an increasingly open network, adopting standard protocols, and increasing integration with hydroelectric power generation system. It generally believed that with the improvement of the smart grid, the future hydroelectric power generation system will rely more on the powerful network system. The general application of standardized communication protocol and intelligent electronic equipment in industrial control network provides a technical guarantee for realizing the intellectualization of hydroelectric power generation system but also brings about the network security problems that cannot be ignored. In order to solve the vulnerability of the system, we analyze and quantitatively evaluate the industrial control network of hydropower generation as a whole, and propose a set of attack and defense strategies. The method of vulnerability assessment with high diversity score proposed by us avoids the indifference of different vulnerability score to the greatest extent. At the same time, we propose an optimal attack and defense decision algorithm, which generates the optimal attack and defense strategy. The work of this paper can distinguish the actual hazards of vulnerable points more effectively.
UT WOS:000593976100033
ER

PT J
AU Hill, MT
   Platts, WS
AF Hill, MT
   Platts, WS
TI Ecosystem restoration: A case study in the Owens River Gorge, California
ID RIPARIAN; ESTABLISHMENT; PERSPECTIVE; VEGETATION; DEBRIS; STREAM
AB In 1991 the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, in cooperation with Mono County, California, initiated a multiyear effort to restore the Owens River Gorge. The project aims to return the river channel, dewatered for more than 50 years, to a functional riverine-riparian ecosystem capable of supporting healthy brown trout and wildlife populations. The passive, or natural, restoration approach focused on the development of riparian habitat and channel complexity using incremental increases in pulse (freshet) and base flows. Increasing pulse and base flows resulted in establishment and rapid growth of riparian vegetation on all landforms, and the formation of good-quality microhabitat features (pools, runs, depth, and wetted width). An extremely complex, productive habitat now occupies the bottom lands of the Owens River Gorge. A healthy fishery in good condition has quickly developed in response to habitat improvement. Brown trout numbers have increased each year since initial stocking, 40% between 1996 and 1997. Catch rates increased from 0 fish/hr in 1991 to 5.8-7.1 fish/hr (with a maximum catch rate of 15.7 fish/hr) in 1996. Restoring the Owens River Gorge bridges the theoretical concepts developed by Kauffman et al. (1997) and the practical application of those concepts in a real-time restoration project.
UT WOS:000076664700004
ER

PT J
AU Ahmed, W
   Hasan, O
   Pervez, U
   Qadir, J
AF Ahmed, Waqar
   Hasan, Osman
   Pervez, Usman
   Qadir, Junaid
TI Reliability modeling and analysis of communication networks
DE Reliability assessment; Communication networks; Reliability block
   diagrams (RBDs); Fault tree; Markov chain; Simulation tools; Formal
   methods
ID FAULT-TREE ANALYSIS; STOCHASTIC PETRI NETS; MARKOV-CHAIN MODEL;
   PERFORMANCE EVALUATION; SYSTEM RELIABILITY; BAYESIAN NETWORKS; SENSOR
   NETWORKS; FUZZY-LOGIC; AVAILABILITY; TOLERANCE
AB In recent times, the functioning of various aspects of modern society-ranging from the various infrastructural utilities such as electrical power, water to socio-economical aspects such as telecommunications, business, commerce, education has become critically reliant on communication networks, and particularly on the Internet. With the migration of critical facilities to the Internet, it has become vitally important to ensure the reliability and availability of networks. In this paper, we study various modeling and analysis techniques that can aid in the study of reliability of communication networks. In this regard, we provide background on the modeling techniques (such as reliability block diagrams, fault trees, Markov chains, etc.) and analysis techniques (such as mathematical analytical methods, simulation methods, and formal methods). Apart from providing the necessary background, we also critically evaluate the pros and cons of different approaches, and provide a detailed survey of their applications in communication networks. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first in-depth review of the application of reliability modeling and analysis techniques in communication networks.
UT WOS:000392555600016
ER

PT J
AU Olcan, C
AF Olcan, Ceyda
TI Multi-objective analytical model for optimal sizing of stand-alone
   photovoltaic water pumping systems
DE Multi-objective optimization; Analytical model; Optimal sizing;
   Photovoltaic water pumping system; Reliability; Life-cycle cost
ID TILT ANGLES; TECHNOECONOMIC ANALYSIS; DIFFUSE-RADIATION; RENEWABLE
   ENERGY; POWER-SYSTEM; PV-SYSTEMS; OPTIMIZATION; IRRIGATION; FEASIBILITY;
   STORAGE
AB Stand-alone photovoltaic (PV) water pumping systems effectively use solar energy for irrigation purposes in remote areas. However the random variability and unpredictability of solar energy makes difficult the penetration of PV implementations and complicate the system design. An optimal sizing of these systems proves to be essential. This paper recommends a techno-economic optimization model to determine optimally the capacity of the components of PV water pumping system using a water storage tank. The proposed model is developed regarding the reliability and cost indicators, which are the deficiency of power supply probability and life-cycle costs, respectively. The novelty is that the proposed optimization model is analytically defined for two-objectives and it is able to find a compromise solution.
   The sizing of a stand-alone PV water pumping system comprises a detailed analysis of crop water requirements and optimal tilt angles. Besides the necessity of long solar radiation and temperature time series, the accurate forecasts of water supply needs have to be determined. The calculation of the optimal tilt angle for yearly, seasonally and monthly frequencies results in higher system efficiency. It is, therefore, suggested to change regularly the tilt angle in order to maximize solar energy output. The proposed optimal sizing model incorporates all these improvements and can accomplish a comprehensive optimization of PV water pumping systems. A case study is conducted considering the irrigation of citrus trees yard located in Antalya, Turkey. The proposed model is also compared with a computational method and it is shown that sizing results are technically and economically more suitable than computational algorithm according to the applications on a 5-yearly basis. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000356754700035
ER

PT J
AU Ehyaei, MA
   Baloochzadeh, S
   Ahmadi, A
   Abanades, S
AF Ehyaei, M. A.
   Baloochzadeh, Simin
   Ahmadi, A.
   Abanades, Stephane
TI Energy, exergy, economic, exergoenvironmental, and environmental
   analyses of a multigeneration system to produce electricity, cooling,
   potable water, hydrogen and sodium-hypochlorite
DE Goswami cycle; Reverse osmosis; Salt; Exergy; Economic;
   Exergoenvironmental
ID REVERSE-OSMOSIS DESALINATION; ORGANIC RANKINE CYCLES; MULTIOBJECTIVE
   OPTIMIZATION; TRIGENERATION SYSTEM; HEAT-RECOVERY; THERMOECONOMIC
   ANALYSIS; THERMODYNAMIC ANALYSIS; COMBINED POWER; SOLAR; DRIVEN
AB One of the necessities of human beings in this century is the potable water supply. This supply has more environmental benefits if the potable water is supplied by renewable energy resources. In this paper, a combination of combined cooling and power system (Goswami cycle), with the reverse osmosis and sodium hypochlorite plant powered by geothermal energy resources is proposed. The products of this system are electrical and cooling energy, potable water, hydrogen and salt. To investigate all of the system aspects, energy, exergy, economic, exergoenvironmental, and environmental analyses are performed. In environmental analysis, the social costs of air pollution are considered. It means that for the same amount of system electrical power produced by non-renewable energy resource power generation systems, the produced air pollution gases and their costs considering the social cost of air pollution are quantified. In this regard, four scenarios are defined. Results show this multi-generation system produces 1.751 GJ/year electrical energy, 1.04 GJ/year cooling energy, 18,106.8 m(3)/year potable water, 7.396 Ton/year hydrogen, and 3.838 Ton/year salt throughout a year. The system energy and exergy efficiencies are equal to 12.25%, and 19.6%. The payback period time of this system is equal to 2.7 years.
UT WOS:000612003200010
ER

PT J
AU Ding, F
   Han, XY
AF Ding, Fan
   Han, Xinyue
TI Performance enhancement of a nanofluid filtered solar membrane
   distillation system using heat pump for electricity/water cogeneration
DE Solar membrane distillation; Nanofluid filter; Concentrating
   photovoltaic; thermal; Direct contact membrane distillation; Heat pump;
   Equivalent thermal energy consumption
ID SEAWATER DESALINATION; PV/T SYSTEM; ENERGY; DESIGN; DCMD
AB Membrane distillation (MD) assisted by heat pump exhibits a favorable energy performance in water production, but it consumes huge precious electricity. In this work, a nanofluid filtered concentrating photovoltaic/thermal (CPV/T) technology is proposed to integrate with heat pump membrane distillation (HPMD) system for electricity/water cogeneration. Solar energy cascade utilization is considered in the system where electricity generated by CPV/T powers heat pump for MD heat recovery, and the collected thermal energy is used to heat seawater. A comprehensive study is carried out by establishing models of the receiver, direct contact membrane distillation (DCMD) and heat pump to investigate the performance of the nanofluid filtered solar membrane distillation system using heat pump. Results show that the seawater of 350.3 K is fed to the DCMD module while the electrical efficiency is above 12.2%. MD parametric analysis and equivalent specific thermal energy consumption (eSTEC) optimization are performed. We found that HPMD operates at the lowest eSTEC of 607.8 kWh center dot m(-3) at heating temperature of 338 K and feed flow rate of 0.04 kg s(-1). An overall system efficiency of 61% is obtained, and the comparison of permeate flux and energy consumption demonstrates advantages of the proposed system over other hybrid MD technologies.
UT WOS:000984885800001
ER

PT J
AU Timur, RS
   Corum, A
   Okten, HE
   Coban, A
   Demir, G
   Bozbura, T
AF Timur, R. S.
   Corum, A.
   Okten, H. E.
   Coban, A.
   Demir, G.
   Bozbura, T.
TI COMPARATIVE COST ANALYSIS OF PRESSURE EXCHANGER (PX) AND TURBINE TYPE
   ENERGY RECOVERY DEVICES AT SEAWATER REVERSE OSMOSIS (SWRO) PLANTS
DE desalination; seawater reverse osmosis (SWRO) systems; energy recovery;
   cost analysis
ID OPTIMUM DESIGN; WATER; DESALINATION; SYSTEM; REUSE
AB Water is essential for human life and sustainable development. Most of the world agricultural production, hydroelectric power and water supplies depend on the water cycle. Water is scarce and will be scarcer in future due to global warming and increasing population and technology. The purpose of this paper was to compare two widely accepted energy recovery systems used in seawater reverse osmosis (SWRO) desalination, which were with either pressure exchanger (PX) or turbine devices, based on cost. Systems were compared based on their first cost and energy consumption costs for different water flow capacities. It was concluded that the system with PX was economically more advantageous than the system with turbine.
UT WOS:000296305700048
ER

PT C
AU Brtníková, P
   Verner, V
AF Brtnikova, Petra
   Verner, Vladimir
GP SGEM
TI FARMING SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT IN THE CHANGING ENVIRONMENT - EXPERIENCE FROM
   RESETTLED HOUSEHOLDS, SOUTHERN BRAZIL
DE livelihood strategies; market orientation; supply chain; sustainability;
   future perspective
ID INVOLUNTARY RESETTLEMENT
AB Barra do Imigrante community is one of the new resettlements established upon construction of the Barra Grande hydroelectric dam in the central part of the Santa Catarina state. Nevertheless, governmental attempts targeted on networking of sustainable energy supplies with infrastructure development are in contradiction with wellbeing of small family farms and bring significant socio-economic changes to producers' livelihoods. Using the sustainable livelihoods concept, this study analyzes the ability of households to adapt to the changing environment from both, household assets' availability and vulnerability to external structures. Results of field survey and in-depth interviews indicate that basic needs such as shelter, water and electricity supply were improved after resettlement. Contrary, production of cash crops is based on principles of contract farming and is highly subsidized. Not appropriate production techniques and vast use of agro-toxins were observed as major causes of harvest losses. Low purchasing price is making the promissory dairy production ineffective. Moreover, farmers' food spending creates significant part of household expenditures. Based on these results we suggest creation of sustainable locally-based agri-business aimed to diversify production, promote agro-tourism in the region and thus strengthen community resilience.
UT WOS:000359614800026
ER

PT J
AU Matmir, S
   Reckien, D
   Flacke, J
AF Matmir, Sadra
   Reckien, Diana
   Flacke, Johannes
TI What do New Yorkers Think about Impacts and Adaptation to Heat Waves? An
   Evaluation Tool to Incorporate Perception of Low-Income Groups into Heat
   Wave Adaptation Scenarios in New York City
DE climate change; climate governance; vulnerability; heat wave; FCM (Fuzzy
   Cognitive Mapping); New York City; income groups
ID FUZZY COGNITIVE MAPS; CLIMATE-CHANGE; VULNERABILITY; FRAMEWORK
AB Low-income residents are among the most vulnerable groups to climate change in urban areas, particularly regarding heat stress. However, their perceptions about heat and the impacts they face go often undocumented, and are seldom considered in decision-making processes delivering adaptation. This paper presents a robust tool to allow the integration of perception, concerns and impacts of different income groups in urban adaptation planning and governance, using the City of New York as a case study. Employing online interviewsa solid method to reach poorer householdsand Fuzzy Cognitive Mapping, we compare impacts and adaptation perception to heat and simulate adaptation scenarios. Results reveal that lower income groups are more concerned about impacts of heat waves than middle- and high-income populations. All income groups see citizens more in charge of adaptation, although more people from the lower income groups regard it necessary to do much more to protect themselves, proportionately more people from the higher income groups think they are doing the right amount. The scenario analysis shows that, compared to investments in the water/electricity and health system, improvements in the transit system would yield the largest decrease in negative impacts during heat, benefitting all income groups jointly.
UT WOS:000408868400001
ER

PT C
AU Huang, K
   Li, Z
AF Huang, Kun
   Li, Zhang
BE Patnaik, S
TI The campus cloud platform setup based on virtualization technology
DE Cloud computing; virtualization; campus cloud platform
AB In the new era, with the increase of users' demand for Internet content, Software and resources have been released and accessed as services. The service mode "IT resources should be treated as water and electricity" has put forward higher requirements for the data center construction, which determines that the traditional data center construction model and programs are no longer able to meet the needs of innovative applications of the new era. Therefore, the integration and innovation of new and old technologies is required. The high reliability, scalability, security, flexibility, greenness and resource customization of cloud computing technology enable more and more campuses to use cloud computing platforms to build campus networks. This paper mainly elaborates the use of virtualization technology and cloud computing technology to build campus cloud platform. (C) 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.
UT WOS:000665021400010
ER

PT J
AU Pontes, PRM
   Cavalcante, RBL
   Salomao, GN
   Guimaraes, JTF
   Dall'Agnol, R
AF Pontes, Paulo Rogenes Monteiro
   Cavalcante, Rosane Barbosa Lopes
   Salomao, Gabriel Negreiro
   Guimaraes, Jose Tasso Felix
   Dall'Agnol, Roberto
TI Environmental assessment based on soil loss, deforestation in permanent
   preservation areas, and water quality applied in the Itacaiúnas
   Watershed, Eastern Amazon
ID LAND-USE; EROSION; CONSERVATION; RESTORATION; CLIMATE; PRECIPITATION;
   ECOSYSTEMS; MANAGEMENT; BRAZIL; COVER
AB To understand how various environmental pressures may threaten the Amazon territory, specifically its hydrographic basins, it is crucial to guide key management actions such as soil conservation, environmental preservation, and forest restoration. This paper, based on a detailed study conducted in the Itacai & uacute;nas River Watershed (IRW) located in the Carajas mining province-one of the most significant metallogenetic provinces globally and within the Arc of Deforestation in the Amazon-proposes a new index to assess environmental threats or vulnerabilities. The index evaluates soil loss, deforestation in permanent preservation areas, and water quality-key environmental issues in watershed management. Using geoprocessing and remote sensing techniques, we applied the index across the entire catchment area and at the beginning of the drainage network (a proxy for river springs). Our findings reveal that: i) 68% of unit catchments (32% of headwaters) exhibit "High" or "Very High" soil loss vulnerability; ii) 69% of unit catchments (32% of headwaters) have more than 20% of their permanent preservation areas deforested, representing the primary threat among the three criteria to the basin; iii) Only 4.7% of unit catchments (2% of headwaters) present any chemical risk related to water consumption. The combined criteria (simple arithmetic mean of normalized values) indicate that the east-central and southern parts of the watershed have higher index values, necessitating greater attention to soil conservation. In contrast, the center-western area of the basin, characterized by conservation units and indigenous land, showed low index values but remains at risk primarily due to soil loss if environmental preservation actions are not maintained. (c) 2024 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
UT WOS:001458910100001
ER

PT J
AU Kamal, A
   Al-Ghamdi, SG
   Koç, M
AF Kamal, Athar
   Al-Ghamdi, Sami G.
   Koc, Muammer
TI Assessing the Impact of Water Efficiency Policies on Qatar's Electricity
   and Water Sectors
DE system dynamics; water-energy nexus; energy policy; energy efficiency
ID SYSTEM DYNAMICS; ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS; ENERGY NEXUS; CLIMATE-CHANGE;
   DESALINATION; RESOURCES; SUSTAINABILITY; MANAGEMENT; REUSE; SIMULATION
AB Water and electricity have a unique relationship in the modern world as one requires the other in a complex system of networks to supply the utility to the customers. This energy-water interaction is especially peculiar in the Gulf Cooperation Council, where there are limited water resources, but extremely high use rates. Qatar provides a unique case in terms of extreme water scarcity and excessive water use. To understand the intricate network, this paper establishes an updated and comprehensive qualitative model of the water system in the country with the help of a water balance and system dynamics (causal loop diagram) methodology. Regression estimates are then used to estimate future water and energy consumption in addition to carbon dioxide emissions until the year 2050. Finally, system dynamics (stock and flow diagram) is used to determine the supply impacts of efficiency policies including limiting of groundwater abstraction to only 50 million m(3), reduction of water consumption in the household, commercial and industrial sector by 10%, and gradual increase in the share of reverse osmosis (RO)-produced desalinated water to 50% in order to assess the supply volume, electricity consumption and CO2 emissions. The efficient use of water in different sectors of the economy results in a combined saving of 1222 GWh (8.1%) or 594,000 tons CO2. Furthermore, by moving to membrane-based desalination technology energy consumption and carbon dioxide emissions can be reduced by 3672 GWh (24.3%) and 1.8 million tons CO2, respectively. Further results suggest that while replacing groundwater with desalinated water can increase the energy consumption significantly, reuse of treated wastewater has almost the same footprint as groundwater, but can increase the resilience of the system considerably as groundwater abstraction levels are lowered to their renewal rates.
UT WOS:000676353900001
ER

PT J
AU Wang, JM
   Tian, BC
   Li, R
   Li, JM
AF Wang, Jiamin
   Tian, Bichen
   Li, Rui
   Li, Jianming
TI Life cycle assessment of heat, CO2 from composting for greenhouse
   applications
DE Biomass; Composting; Solar greenhouses; Life cycle assessment
ID WATER
AB Greenhouses play a crucial role in agricultural production, especially in high-latitude regions requiring supplemental heating during winter. This study explores the potential of a Shed-type Greenhouse Composting Device (SGCD) to recover heat and CO2 from composting agricultural waste (AW) for use in solar greenhouses. A Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) was conducted to evaluate the environmental impacts of the SGCD system, covering its construction, operation, and recycling units. The results show that heat and CO2 recovery significantly reduce reliance on coal heating and CO2 cylinders, with heat recovery contributing 30.94 % and CO2 recovery 17.40 % to impact reduction. Key environmental hotspots include the impacts of construction materials, water, electricity, and diesel use. Sensitivity analysis revealed that the system is most sensitive to freshwater ecotoxicity, toxicity equivalent, and marine ecotoxicity. The impact of AW processing is minimal, contributing only 1.09 % of the total impact. Economically, the SGCD system increases tomato yield by 15.06 %, generating an additional $225.35 in annual revenue, with a payback period of two years and profitability from the third year. Overall, the SGCD system offers both environmental and economic benefits, promoting energy-efficient, low-carbon agricultural practices in high-latitude greenhouses.
UT WOS:001423176700001
ER

PT J
AU Mitra, SS
   Sharma, MK
   Rybar, S
   Bartels, C
   Pelegrin, L
AF Mitra, Sambhu Saran
   Sharma, Mahabir Kumar
   Rybar, Stefan
   Bartels, Craig
   Pelegrin, Larry
TI Fujairah SWRO - management of membrane replacement
DE Fujairah SWRO; Plant management; Membranes
ID DESALINATION
AB Fresh water shortage is a growing problem facing the world, especially in the Middle East. With the rapid increase in fuel Price, seawater reverse osmosis (SWRO) is increasingly becoming a Popular option for water supply. To date several seawater reverse osmosis desalination plants have been built in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) to meet the growing demand for fresh water in the country. The Fujairah Water and Power Plant was acquired in 2006 by a joint venture company between the Abu Dhabi Water and Electricity Authority and Sembcorp, forming the Emirates Sembcorp Water and Power Company (ESWPC). The plant is operated under agreement by Sembcorp Gulf O&M Company (SGOMC). The Fujairah Water and Power Plant is comprised of a hybrid system with a configuration of 37.5 MIGD reverse osmosis and. 62.5 MIGD of multi stage flash desalination capability, and it is the largest SWRO plant in the UAE and second largest in the world. The plant has been in successful operation since June 2003. SGOMC started maintenance and operation of this plant on 26 September 2006. Initially, there was some apprehension in operating such a large SWRO plant as there were concerns regarding the design of the systems upstream, operation of systems upstream and proper monitoring of membrane performance with timed Countermeasures. After review of the current operating performance and conditions, it was decided that 25% of the membranes would be replaced to improve the operation of the plant. Hydranautics (FIN), the world's leader in membrane technology, initially provided 17,136 SWC3 membranes for this installation and 4,088 ESPA1 elements for partial second pass. Since the plant start up and initial tuning of the system, membranes are performing to expectation and providing the required quality as well as quantity of product water. The decision for replacement was critical in view of selecting of the right membranes for replacement and identifying the right membranes to be rejected. Finally the decision was made to select the highest rejection membrane, the SWC4+. The new membranes offer a nominal salt rejection of 99.8% and 93% boron rejection when operated at standard test conditions with a pH of 7. After 5 years of operation with almost zero replacement in the Fujairah SWRO plant, SGOMC and Hydranautics chose to gradually replace some of the SWC3 elements with new higher rejection and higher area SWC4+ membranes which provide advantages for plant operation such as operation at increased recovery and increased train capacity while producing better product water quality. A detailed account of the reasons for this change and the approaches to membrane replacement will be discussed and explained in the course of this paper. The authors hope further that this paper can be a useful reference for future development of SWRO plants, membrane selection and membrane replacement management in the Middle East as well as globally. Fujairah SWRO offers an excellent example where close cooperation between the plant management and the membrane supplier, together with optimization of individual process units upstream of membranes contribute significantly in the reliable and successful long term operation of an RO plant.
UT WOS:000271715900035
ER

PT J
AU Stuhlmacher, A
   Mathieu, JL
AF Stuhlmacher, Anna
   Mathieu, Johanna L.
TI Chance-Constrained Water Pumping to Manage Water and Power Demand
   Uncertainty in Distribution Networks
DE Water pumps; Power demand; Cogeneration; Optimization; Real-time
   systems; Pumps; Distribution networks; Power distribution; Distribution
   networks; Chance-constrained (CC) programming; electric power
   distribution networks (PDNs); water distribution networks (WDNs)
ID DISTRIBUTION-SYSTEMS; OPTIMAL OPERATION; SUPPLY NETWORKS; NATURAL-GAS;
   OPTIMIZATION; FLOW; DESIGN
AB Water pumping in drinking water distribution networks (WDNs) can be treated as a flexible load in the power distribution network (PDN). In this article, we formulate an optimization problem to minimize the electricity costs associated with pumping subject to WDN and PDN constraints. In practice, both water and power demands are uncertain and pumps should be scheduled to ensure that pump operation does not violate either networks' constraints for nearly all possible uncertainty realizations. To address this problem, we formulate a chance-constrained (CC) optimization problem that simultaneously determines pumping schedules along with the parameters of real-time control policies that can be used to respond to water and power demand forecast errors. We use approximations and relaxations along with the scenario approach for CC programming to reformulate the optimization problem into a convex deterministic problem. We demonstrate the performance of the approach through case studies and also explore the impact of the relaxations, an approach to improve computational tractability, and tradeoffs associated with the way in which we define the cost of real-time control actions. We find that optimal scheduling and real-time control of water pumping can effectively manage water and power demand uncertainty, meaning water demand is satisfied and both the WDN and PDN operate within their limits; however, the approach is conservative leading to high reliability at high cost.
UT WOS:000562097000015
ER

PT J
AU Balakrishnan, S
   Zhang, ZM
AF Balakrishnan, Srijith
   Zhang, Zhanmin
TI Developing Priority Index for Managing Utility Disruptions in Urban
   Areas with Focus on Cascading and Interdependent Effects
ID SOCIAL VULNERABILITY; INFRASTRUCTURE
AB Unanticipated events such as natural disasters, terrorist attacks, cyber-attacks, and so forth, could cause prolonged disruptions in major utility service networks including, for example, water and electricity, in urban areas. Owing to the presence of complex interdependencies among infrastructure systems in an urban network, the disruption of one system may trigger a chain of events that degrades the proper functioning of several other dependent systems. Consequently, many parts of the city may not have access to multiple utility services and amenities. Identifying the most vulnerable communities exposed to such utility disruptions is key to performing immediate relief operations. In this paper, the concept of Priority Index, introduced as a measure of the susceptibility of communities to the event, is presented to rank urban regions based on the extent of the impact of disruptions (both cascading and interdependent impacts) caused by an event, as well as the social vulnerability of communities. Agent-based models are employed to simulate the consequences of a disruptive event on a semi-realistic urban infrastructure network. Later, the extent of impact on communities is evaluated using the simulation results and the American Community Survey data. The proposed Priority Index could help city administrations and utility service agencies identify the regions in a city that require immediate attention after a disruptive event occurs in the infrastructure network. A case study based on a semi-realistic infrastructure network in Austin, Texas is presented to demonstrate the implementation of the concept of Priority Index and the methodological framework.
UT WOS:000468210800010
ER

PT J
AU Zhong, YQ
   Shang, W
   Cui, SH
   Bai, XM
   Lu, QY
   Meng, FX
   Wang, LH
   Jiang, FX
   Sun, SL
   Wang, JY
   Huang, HJ
   Hong, YM
   Wang, SY
AF Zhong, Yiqiang
   Shang, Wei
   Cui, Shenghui
   Bai, Xuemei
   Lu, Quanying
   Meng, Fanxin
   Wang, Lihong
   Jiang, Fuxin
   Sun, Shaolong
   Wang, Jingyi
   Huang, Hongjie
   Hong, Yongmiao
   Wang, Shouyang
TI Text-based modeling reveals the sector-specific benefits of emerging
   technologies for extreme flood adaptation
ID RESILIENCE
AB Technological progress can help reduce the flood adaptation gap, but its sector-specific impacts remain unclear. Here, we developed a text-mining approach to analyze how four technologies-drones, online rescue forms, navigation apps, and drainage systems-affect perceived flood losses. We applied this model to 3.58 million social media posts from extreme floods in two Chinese cities. Results show highly heterogeneous effects: drones and online rescue forms support multisectoral recovery, while navigation apps and drainage mainly target traffic and buildings. For reducing casualties and restoring communication and water/electricity supply, drones (43.0%-62.2%) and online rescue forms (19.5%-37.1%) ranked higher in importance than rescue effort effectiveness (17.3%-28.5%). Technology adoption reduced perceived losses primarily by improving rescue effectiveness, with online rescue forms showing the strongest propagation path (coefficient: 0.577-0.579). This study provides a text-based framework for evaluating technology in flood adaptation and supports planning under resource constraints.
UT WOS:001666804000002
ER

PT C
AU Naydenov, B
   Delprat, L
   Bradu, B
   Brodzinski, K
AF Naydenov, B.
   Delprat, L.
   Bradu, B.
   Brodzinski, K.
GP IOP PUBLISHING LTD
TI 2 K system exergetic optimisation and helium recovery system for FCC-ee
AB At its ttbar stage, FCC-ee is expected to require over 200 cryomodules housing 800 MHz bulk niobium superconducting radio frequency cavities at 2 K, and more than 60 cryomodules housing 400 MHz niobium-sputtered copper cavities at 4.5 K. The complexity, energy intensity, and scale of the associated cryogenic system requires a holistic design approach. Topics such as sustainability or resilience against prolonged electrical grid perturbations become integral to this process. Thus, helium preservation, energy efficiency, and integration constraints are considered in the current conceptual design phase. This paper details the design of the very low-pressure system used to maintain the cavities at 2 K. The operational variables of its distribution line have been addressed in a parametric manner using a combination of numerical simulations and exergetic analyses. The results enable the comparison of various implementation options, directly linking them to the energy consumption of the refrigerator. Subsequent sensitivity analyses reveal that while a central heat exchanger architecture is preferred for integration aspects, it is overall less energy-efficient than a distributed one at lower heat exchanger effectiveness values. Finally, we propose a helium recovery system based on diesel-powered compressors of up to 1 MW to preserve the cryogen inventory during incidents. Initial sizing allowed to extract the additional space, cooling water and electricity requirements needed for its implementation.
UT WOS:001511626300018
ER

PT C
AU Pino, EJ
   Pereira, RA
AF Pino, Esteban J.
   Pereira, Rodrigo A.
GP IEEE
TI Intensive Care Unit Availability Indexed to Patient Complexity
ID SYSTEM
AB In this paper, a procedure to estimate a Clinical Unit availability is presented. Service availability depends on multiple resources, some of them redundant, to function properly. However, resource consumption varies according to patient's medical condition.
   The availability of an Intensive Care Unit (ICU) depends both on basic components (electricity, water) and on requirements set by patient complexity and quantity. We propose using Diagnosis Related Groups (DRG) as an estimator of patient complexity. Accumulated DRG (DRG(a)) represents the quantity/complexity combination that the ICU has to care for at any given moment. Our analysis allowed us to find the theoretical combination of patients that would collapse a clinical unit. This limit was deemed reasonable to expert advisors based on their experience at the ICU.
   The study was conducted for the adult ICU at the 'Clinica Universitaria de Concepcion', a teaching hospital in Concepcion, Chile. Data was collected during 4 months and analyzed using reliability theory. Overall reliability and availability results are consistent with incident reports at the Clinic. The procedure and recommendations for unit design and management are applicable to Clinical Units both at early planning stages or for currently working units.
UT WOS:000298810001092
ER

PT J
AU Bouzayani, N
   Galanis, N
   Orfi, J
AF Bouzayani, N.
   Galanis, N.
   Orfi, J.
TI Comparative study of power and water cogeneration systems
DE reverse osmosis; exergy analysis; recovery system
ID ENERGY-CONSUMPTION; DESALINATION PLANT; SEAWATER RO; RECOVERY;
   PERFORMANCE; REDUCTION
AB The performance of three combined systems using reverse osmosis to produce drinkable water and a Rankine cycle which produces mechanical power have been analyzed and compared. The RO subsystem incorporates a power recovery unit (a hydraulic turbine in the first two cases and a pressure exchange unit in the third case). The coupling between the RO and Rankine subsystems is only mechanical in the first case (the Rankine cycle provides mechanical power to the pumps of the RO subsystem), while in the two other cases the coupling is both mechanical and thermal (the heat rejected by the condenser of the Rankine cycle is transferred to the seawater). The minimum values of the Rankine cycle mass ratio for the three systems and the maximum operating temperature for the two last systems have been established. Energy and exergy efficiencies are also compared for identical entering parameters.
UT WOS:000244663800027
ER

PT J
AU Wu, DF
   Cao, Z
   Wu, JF
   Jiao, Y
   Ye, HC
   Qu, JF
   Hu, JD
   Li, JZ
   Cai, YH
AF Wu, Dongfang
   Cao, Zheng
   Wu, Jianfei
   Jiao, Yue
   Ye, Hanchen
   Qu, Jiafu
   Hu, Jundie
   Li, Jianzhang
   Cai, Yahui
TI Thermo-Adaptive Interfacial Solar Evaporators Enhanced by Tunable
   Structure and Wettability for High-Efficiency Water and Electricity
   Cogeneration
DE evaporative power generation; interfacial solar steam evaporation; low
   enthalpy of evaporation; salt-resistant; temperature-sensitive PNIPAM
   hydrogel
AB Global population growth and technological progress have intensified water and energy shortages. Interface-type solar evaporation technology is promising for simultaneous clean water production and energy recovery, but pure PNIPAM-based evaporators suffer from poor mechanical strength, unstable molding, and single functionality. Herein, we developed a thermally adaptive solar evaporator (NAZ-ZC) by optimizing the material system. By copolymerizing poly(n-isopropylacrylamide) (PNIPAM) with acrylic acid (AA), we aimed to enhance mechanical strength, water storage capacity, and functional diversity. Additionally, a multi-network structure with dual crosslinkers (MBA/AG) was constructed to minimize the excessive occurrence of PNIPAM structural changes. Combined with in-situ grown ZIF-67@CNTs photothermal layers, NAZ-ZC achieves temperature-driven wetting switching (hydrophilic/hydrophobic) via PNIPAM's LCST effect. Under 1-sun irradiation, it exhibits an evaporation rate of 3.88 kg m-2 h-1, 48 h stable operation without salt accumulation in 15 wt.% NaCl solution, and integrated power recovery (104.39 mV). This study provides a new paradigm for robust, efficient, multifunctional solar evaporation systems.
UT WOS:001672584200001
ER

PT C
AU Kamiji, Y
   Noguchi, H
   Terada, A
   Yan, X
AF Kamiji, Yu
   Noguchi, Hiroki
   Terada, Atsuhiko
   Yan, Xing
GP ASME
TI FLOWSHEET STUDY OF A MULTISTAGE FLASH DESALINATION SYSTEM FOR
   COGENERATION WITH HIGH TEMPERATURE GAS-COOLED REACTOR
AB High temperature gas-cooled reactor (HTGR) produces not only electricity but also high temperature heat for a variety of heat applications. In the Middle East countries, large demand exists for cogeneration of pure water and electricity from desalination plant coupling with power station. Desalination with an HTGR direct cycle gas turbine system can efficiently meet this demand because such system can produce pure water from using only the waste heat of power generation via secondary pressurized water loop. The waste heat of up to 248MWt is available for desalination from the reactor system of 600 MWt thermal power. In this paper, heat and mass balance was calculated for a new concept of desalination system which is shown to increase use of waste heat by incrementing the number of thermal loading steps at the heat recovery section. Calculation is performed at steady water production condition to clarify the optimum steps of incremental loading based on engineering considerations. As the result, it was found that heat transfer area of heat recovery section in case of brine heater number 3 was 28% smaller than that of number 2.
UT WOS:000367117200005
ER

PT J
AU Khan, S
   Riverol, C
AF Khan, Salisha
   Riverol, Carmen
TI Performance of a pinch analysis for the process of recovery of ethanol
   from fermentation
DE ethanol; pinch technology; utilities; energy consumption; optimization;
   heat exchanger networks
ID CATALYTIC CONVERSION; BROTHS
AB The objectives of the project reported here were to perform an energy analysis for the process of the recovery of ethanol from fermentation broths by catalytic conversion to gasoline and to conduct a pinch analysis to obtain a new heat exchanger network, and thus, reduce the utility costs. A minimum temperature difference of 10 degrees C was used. A temperature interval diagram and cascade diagram were drawn to identify the pinch points and four such points were observed. New heat exchanger networks were formulated from this information. The least number of heat exchangers for the different networks created was 19, whereas the original process had 9. The cost of utilities was the same for both systems. Therefore, it was concluded that the implementation of this system in the Caribbean could be expensive since in the first instance, ethanol is not particularly plentiful. Secondly, electricity and water costs are expensive in the Caribbean compared to other countries in America, such that any effort in reducing CO2 emissions by using ethanol would not be feasible.
UT WOS:000250122500002
ER

PT C
AU Remeli, MF
   Singh, B
   Amirah, N
   Meon, MS
   Fadilla, WN
AF Remeli, M. F.
   Singh, B.
   Amirah, N.
   Meon, M. S.
   Fadilla, W. N.
BE Tong, CW
   ChinTsan, W
   Huat, BSL
TI Solar Distillation Thermoelectric Power Generation
ID HEAT-RECOVERY
AB In this paper, a phase change material (PCM) heat storage and thermoelectric cells were integrated into a solar still. This project aim is to store the available solar heat using the PCM for generating power and increasing freshwater production. An experimental test rig of the solar still was designed, built and tested. The solar still consists of a single slope basin container with a PCM storage located at the bottom. The thermoelectric cells were installed beneath the PCM storage. The natural convection cooling method was used to cool the thermoelectric cells. The study showed that the solar still thermoelectric power generation (SSTEG) was able to produce 9.6 ml/m(2) of fresh water and at the same time generated peak open circuit voltage of 44mV. The study is hopefully could provide a simple and cheap solar still system that can solve the water and electricity problem in rural areas.
UT WOS:000493910800022
ER

PT J
AU Breen, A
   Swartz, L
   Flisher, AJ
   Joska, JA
   Corrigall, J
   Plaatjies, L
   McDonald, DA
AF Breen, Alison
   Swartz, Leslie
   Flisher, Alan J.
   Joska, John A.
   Corrigall, Joanne
   Plaatjies, Lindelwa
   McDonald, David A.
TI Experience of mental disorder in the context of basic service reforms:
   The impact on caregiving environments in South Africa
DE global service reforms; mental disorders; household burden; mental
   health care
ID PREVALENCE; HEALTH; DEPRESSION; BURDEN; CARE
AB The integration of mental health services into primary health care and the shift towards community-and family-based care for chronic mental disorders has been associated with increased burden on households. At the same time, research investigating the impact of policies of cost recovery for basic services such as water and electricity has also indicated an increased burden on households. This study aimed to investigate the impact of these basic service reforms on households caring for a family member with a chronic mental disorder in Cape Town, South Africa. The findings indicate that factors associated with service reforms may increase the stress and burden experienced by households and in turn impact on the primary environment in which care is received.
UT WOS:000251132800001
ER

PT J
AU Karanikola, P
   Tampakis, S
   Rantzoudi, E
AF Karanikola, P.
   Tampakis, S.
   Rantzoudi, E.
TI EVALUATION OF THE PROBLEMS CREATED BY TREES AND BUSHES TO THE URBAN
   ENVIRONMENT
DE urban environment; problems created by trees and bushes; reliability
   analysis; factor analysis
AB Urban green undoubtedly updates humans' quality of life in the cities has a positive impact to the microclimate and air's texture, improves both architectural and aesthetics view of cities and represents nature in the structured environment. Nevertheless, the advantages offered by green areas in the cities also create problems, which when tracked down and handled in due time do not have an impact on the citizens' positive image towards green areas. Some of the most commonly planted trees in urban zones are known to be the greatest producers of pollen and they are allergenic species during florescence period to some people, while other problems are the raising of pavements' plates, dead leaves and fruits in the surrounding areas during fall, damages caused to the electricity and water supply transport network, visibility impediment to drivers and possible accidents' provocation, damages caused by breaking of boughs and falling of trees due to the wind and finally the encumbrance for their care cost. The present research investigates with the aid of simple random sampling through a self-management questionnaire the evaluation of the above-mentioned problems caused by the presence of trees and bushes in the urban area, in the citizens of Orestiada. A reliability and factorial analysis were applied to control the problems created from a multi-thematic approach in order to examine the variables' reliability of the questionnaire and their validity, respectively.
UT WOS:000260354500024
ER

PT C
AU Aroussy, Y
   Saifaoui, D
   Lilane, A
   Tarfaoui, M
AF Aroussy, Youssef
   Saifaoui, Dennoun
   Lilane, Amine
   Tarfaoui, Mostapha
TI Thermo-economic simulation and analysis of a solar thermal cycle
   combined with two desalination processes by multi-effect distillation
   (MED)
DE Desalination; Electricity-water cogeneration; Reverse Osmosis; MED; Heat
   recovery system
ID COSTS
AB In this work, two desalination systems combined with a solar energy cycle, MED-PF and MED-PF-TVC are analyzed and evaluated thermo-economically. Solar energy is directly transferred from the solar collector field via the evaporator heat exchanger to MED-PF. In the second technique, the thermal energy produced is transmitted to the steam ejector of the MED-PF-TVC. The comparisons are handled according to 5000 m(3)/clay of distilled product as a case study. A reduction in consumption and specific energy costs is possible due to the reduction in the value of the compression ratio and the increase in the number of evaporators. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000576798600013
ER

PT J
AU Alkuhayli, A
   Dashtdar, M
   Flah, A
   El-Bayeh, CZ
   Blazek, V
   Prokop, L
AF Alkuhayli, Abdulaziz
   Dashtdar, Masoud
   Flah, Aymen
   El-Bayeh, Claude Ziad
   Blazek, Vojtech
   Prokop, Lukas
TI Designing a multi-objective energy management system in multiple
   interconnected water and power microgrids based on the MOPSO algorithm
DE Multiple microgrids; Power-water energy management; Operating cost and
   emissions; Optimization; DR; MOPSO
ID OPTIMIZATION; TRANSACTIONS; COMMUNITIES; OPERATION; NETWORKS; MARKET
AB In this paper, a method of the energy management system (EMS) in multiple microgrids considering the constraints of power flow based on the three-objective optimization model is presented. The studied model specifications, the variable speed pumps in the water network as well and the storage tanks are optimally planned as flexible resources to reduce operating costs and pollution. The proposed method is implemented hierarchically through two primary and secondary control layers. At the primary control level, each microgrid performs local planning for its subscribers and energy generation resources, and their excess or unsupplied power is determined. Then, by sending this information to the central energy management system (CEMS) at the secondary level, it determines the amount of energy exchange, taking into account the limitations of power flow. Energy storage systems (ESS) are also considered to maintain the balance between power generation by renewable energy sources and consumption load. Also, the demand response (DR) program has been used to smooth the load curve and reduce operating costs. Finally, in this article, the multi-objective particle swarm optimization (MOPSO) is used to solve the proposed three-objective problem with three cost functions generation, pollution, and pump operation. Additionally, sensitivity analysis was conducted with uncertainties of 25 % and 50 % in network generation units, exploring their impact on objective functions. The proposed model has been tested on the microgrid of a 33-bus test distribution and 15-node test water system and has been investigated for different cases. The simulation results prove the effectiveness of the integration of water and power network planning in reducing the operating cost and emission of pollution in such a way that the proposed control scheme properly controls the performance of microgrids and the network in interactions with each other and has a high level of robustness, stable behavior under different conditions and high quality of the power supply. In such a way that improvements of 41.1 %, 52.2 %, and 20.4 % in the defined objective functions and the evaluation using DM, SM, and MID indices further confirms the algorithm ' s enhanced performance in optimizing the specified objective functions by 51 %, 11 %, and 5.22 %, respectively.
UT WOS:001243458700001
ER

PT J
AU Kim, AA
   Reed, DA
AF Kim, Amy A.
   Reed, Dorothy A.
TI Interdisciplinary Approach to Building Functionality for Weather Hazards
DE Electric power infrastructure; functionality; human-centric; resilience
AB It is estimated that in the United States, people spend 90% of their time in buildings. In order to ensure quality of life for communities, we propose a human-centric design approach to building "functionality." "Functionality" is defined as the set of "essential services" to meet occupant needs for safety and well-being. These services include lighting, heating and cooling, ventilation, water supply, and wastewater management. At present, a multidisciplinary top-down approach exists where owners dictate the building operations to architects. Our central thesis is that a bottom-up approach based on occupant safety and well-being should drive the functionality design process. Research on occupant well-being conducted by social scientists should be considered by architects in creating the building functionality layout. One of the results of this research should be a set of the type and level of services required for well-being. Architects and engineers should work together to design physical systems to ensure that the derived acceptable levels of the services not be exceeded for various frequencies of occurrence tied to the weather conditions at the site. In order to make this approach viable, minimal amounts of continuous electric power must be made available such as through building integrated photovoltaic panels. The corresponding onsite power generation and storage needs are therefore a critical aspect of the proposed formulation. It is anticipated that significant interactions during the iterative building design process among the architects and social scientists with the engineering disciplines will change an existing multidisciplinary approach into an interdisciplinary one.
UT WOS:000509591200001
ER

PT J
AU Fu, YY
   O'Neill, Z
   Adetola, V
AF Fu, Yangyang
   O'Neill, Zheng
   Adetola, Veronica
TI A flexible and generic functional mock-up unit based threat injection
   framework for grid-interactive efficient buildings: A case study in
   Modelica
DE Threat Injection; Functional mock-up unit; Cyber-attack; Building
   control; Grid-interactive efficient buildings
ID SIMULATION; IMPACTS; ATTACK; FAULTS
AB Grid-interactive efficient buildings (GEBs) have been considered as an important asset to support the power grid reliability by utilizing the demand flexibility offered by GEBs. GEBs are enabled by advances in sensors and controls, and the communication between building equipment, whole buildings, and the grid. The integration of different building technologies and network-based communication system makes GEBs vulnerable to passive threats such as equipment failure and active threats such as cyber-attacks. Modeling and simulation is an effective way to evaluate the impact of threats on the system performance. This paper proposes a generic and flexible threat injection framework for commonly-used building energy simulators such as EnergyPlus and Modelica to support threat modeling and evaluation. This framework leverages functional mock-up unit (FMU) to develop a general modeling interface for threat injection and simulation. A numerical case study using Modelica as a building energy simulator is conducted to demonstrate the capability of the framework for supporting single/multiple-order threat modeling and simulation of a GEB. Four threats and their combinations are injected on a Modelica-based threat-free building energy and control system, including operating supply fan at its full speed, remotely cycling the chiller on and off, blocking the chiller from receiving the chilled water supply temperature setpoints, and hijacking the global zone air temperature setpoint. Simulation results show that the cyber-attack that leads to short-term signal blocking has small effects on the system operation due to the "self-healing" feature of the heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning (HVAC) interactive control system. The threat that takes control of resetting the global zone air temperature setpoints has the most adverse impact on the system energy use, peak power demand, thermal comfort and the provision of demand flexibility. The combination of four threats have aggregative effects on the system but the effects are less than the additive effects of the individual threat. (c) 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000693461300001
ER

PT J
AU Wang, YC
   Chu, L
   Liu, ZM
   Ala, M
   Lin, JX
   Qian, JQ
   Zhou, QL
   Wang, LX
AF Wang, Yongcui
   Chu, Lei
   Liu, Zhimin
   Ala, MuSa
   Lin, Jixiang
   Qian, Jianqiang
   Zhou, Quanlai
   Wang, Lixin
TI The feasibility of using soil seed bank for natural regeneration of
   degraded sandy grasslands
DE Degradation; In-situ; Restoration; Seed bank; Semi-arid
ID SPONTANEOUS VEGETATION SUCCESSION; INNER-MONGOLIA; RESTORATION; PLANTS;
   DYNAMICS; MEADOWS; SITES; LAND; RAIN
AB Desertification in degraded grasslands is manifested through the development of bare sandy patches, which eventually lead to habitat fragmentation. The ability of these bare sandy patches to regenerate naturally through in-situ soil seed banks is not well understood. To fill this knowledge gap, we randomly selected 24 bare sandy patches with areas ranging from 19 to 898 m2 in a desertified grassland of the Horqin sandy land, Northern China to determine whether soil seed bank can be used for natural regeneration of bare sandy patches. Species composition and density of soil seed bank as well as aboveground vegetation composition, abundance and coverage were investigated. We then determined their relationships with in-situ habitat characteristics. Our observations showed that the studied area had low soil seed bank density and species richness, as well as depauperate soil seed bank communities. Consequently, local soil seed bank was not able to provide sufficient seed source for natural regeneration. This was indicated by the relationships between aboveground vegetation, soil seed bank and the in-situ habitat characteristics. For bare patches with an area between 300 m2 and 900 m2, increase the soil seed bank density and species richness should be the main restoration measures. For bare patches with a small area of less than 50 m2, restoration of vegetation density should be the main measure. Our data highlighted that different extents of desertification, indicated by different bare patches, are requiring distinct restoration measures.(c) 2021 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
UT WOS:000841965900001
ER

PT J
AU Ghani, MI
   Wang, J
   Li, P
   Pathan, SI
   Sial, TA
   Datta, R
   Mokhtar, A
   Ali, EF
   Rinklebe, J
   Shaheen, SM
   Liu, MY
   Abdelrahman, H
AF Ghani, Muhammad Imran
   Wang, Jing
   Li, Peng
   Pathan, Shamina Imran
   Sial, Tanveer Ali
   Datta, Rahul
   Mokhtar, Ali
   Ali, Esmat F.
   Rinklebe, Joerg
   Shaheen, Sabry M.
   Liu, Mengyun
   Abdelrahman, Hamada
TI Variations of soil organic carbon fractions in response to conservative
   vegetation successions on the Loess Plateau of China
DE Vegetation restoration; Organic carbon content; Labile organic carbon;
   Carbonate; Soil conservation
ID LAND-USE; INORGANIC CARBON; RESTORATION STRATEGIES; CROPPING SYSTEMS;
   KARST AREA; MATTER; NITROGEN; DYNAMICS; SEQUESTRATION; AFFORESTATION
AB Land use changes profoundly affect the equilibrium of soil organic carbon (SOC) sequestration and greenhouse gas emissions. With the current global climatic changes, it is vital to understand the influ-ence of ecological restoration and conservation management on the dynamics of SOC under different land uses, especially in erosion-endangered Loess soils. Therefore, we investigated changes in SOC through a suit of labile fractions, namely: light fraction organic C (LFOC), heavy fraction organic C (HFOC), coarse particulate organic C (CPOC), fine particulate organic C (FPOC), and dissolved organic C (DOC), from two forests i.e., Robinia pseudoacacia (RP) and Platycladus orientalis (PO), with different ages, in comparison with farmland (FL). The SOC and STN contents significantly increased over 42 years in the RP forest where the contents of CPOC and FPOC were significantly higher than in the FL. Moreover, total SOC and its labile fractions, in the studied land use types, significantly correlated with soil CaCO3, pH, and STN contents, indicating their key roles in SOC sequestration. The results reported here from different vegetation with different ages provide a better understanding of SOC and STN alterations at different stages of vegetation restoration. Our findings suggest that long-term natural vegetation restoration could be an effective approach for SOC sequestration and soil conservation on the Loess soil.& COPY; 2022 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
UT WOS:001021616800001
ER

PT J
AU HASSAN, A
   AZIZ, S
   RADIF, A
   SAID, S
   ALSUM, EA
AF HASSAN, A
   AZIZ, S
   RADIF, A
   SAID, S
   ALSUM, EA
TI CORROSION EXPERIENCE DATA-BANK SYSTEM FOR DESALINATION AND POWER-PLANTS
   (COREX)
AB Severe corrosion problems are encountered in desalination plants, related facilities and power stations, which cause safety problems and high costs through shutdown and replacement of equipment. Preventing corrosion will increase the availability and reliability of the plants.
   Experience on corrosion observed in years of operation and maintenance of desalination and power plants are often ill-documented, and prompt access to documented experience, if any exists, is in most cases not available.
   A computer-aided experience retrieval system would provide readily accessable documented experience to the owner of a desalination and power plant.
   A computer program based on a data bank system for corrosion in desalination plants and power stations (COREX) has been developed. It stores the corrosion experience of the Water & Electricity Department (Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates) in its desalination plants and power stations. COREX can be interrogated by planning, operating, and maintenance staff, and can also be used for training purposes.
UT WOS:A1991GP75700019
ER

PT J
AU Qiu, M
   Pei, XJ
   Zhang, XC
   Xi, HC
   Huang, T
   Du, J
   Wei, ZM
   Zhao, XY
   Wang, S
AF Qiu, Mao
   Pei, Xiangjun
   Zhang, Xiaochao
   Xi, Hongchao
   Huang, Tiao
   Du, Jie
   Wei, Zeming
   Zhao, Xiaoyi
   Wang, Shuang
TI Aggregate stability thresholds and sediment sorting governed by soil net
   force under different woodland restoration types
DE Sediment sorting; Aggregate stability; Soil net force; Vegetation
   restoration; Threshold mechanism
ID PARTICLE INTERACTION FORCES; SIZE DISTRIBUTION; EROSION PROCESSES;
   ORGANIC-MATTER; LOESS PLATEAU; SURFACE-AREA; CARBON; VEGETATION;
   RESISTANCE; RAINFALL
AB Different types of vegetation restoration, particularly forests, are well known to affect soil erosion resistance differently. However, the underlying mechanisms for these differences remain unclear. Most existing studies focus on macro-scale soil properties, overlooking the fundamental interparticle forces that govern soil structure. We propose that the net force between soil particles is this key mechanistic link. To test this, we compared soil properties and erosion processes across four woodland types (one broadleaf, three coniferous) after 23 years of restoration. Our results show that tree species alter soil organic matter (SOM) content and functional group composition (e.g., aromatic-C, polysaccharide-C). This enhancement, in turn, improves soil surface charge properties. Crucially, this process preferentially strengthens van der Waals attraction, which leads to a significant reduction in the net repulsive force. The reduction in net force showed a strong nonlinear correlation with improved aggregate stability. We identified a critical threshold of approximately 12 atm, which governs the transition of aggregates from gradual release to explosive breakdown. Consequently, soils with a lower net force (e.g., under Quercus wutaishanica forest) had significantly lower sediment concentration and a distinct sediment sorting pattern. This pattern showed reduced enrichment of fine particles and a shift from silt-dominated to a more balanced particle loss. This mechanistic understanding reveals how soil net force mediates the differential erosion outcomes, providing a scientific basis for tree species selection in restoration projects. (c) 2026 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
UT WOS:001838729400002
ER

PT J
AU Arboleda, CA
   Abraham, DM
   Richard, JPP
   Lubitz, R
AF Arboleda, Carlos A.
   Abraham, Dulcy M.
   Richard, Jean-Philippe P.
   Lubitz, Robert
TI Vulnerability Assessment of Health Care Facilities during Disaster
   Events
ID INPUT-OUTPUT MODEL
AB Infrastructure systems are essential to the operation of health care facilities and do not exist in isolation of one another-telecommunications networks require electricity, transportation networks require systems information to operate, emergency systems require transportation networks, and so forth. During a disaster event, health care facilities are expected to operate efficiently to provide sufficient care to injured patients. However, medical care for injured patients can be affected if health care facilities do not have a sufficient supply of electricity, water, access to road transportation networks, etc. This paper presents a methodology to assist in the analysis of the operational vulnerability of a health care facility during disaster events, considering the impact of disruption of a selected number of critical infrastructure systems in the flow of patients. It integrates the analysis of external infrastructure systems and the internal capabilities of the facility. The analysis of external infrastructure systems is performed using mathematical models that use optimization techniques to determine the unsatisfied demand in the major infrastructure systems and the impact of this shortage of resources on the operation of the hospital. A system dynamics simulation model is used to represent the internal operation of the health care facility, including the interaction between the different service areas, the flow of patients within the facility, and the condition of the external infrastructure systems that supply its resources. The framework and modeling presented in this paper can assist in determining cost-effective operational strategies in a health care facility that better respond to disaster events because they consider the interdependencies between infrastructure systems.
UT WOS:000269061200002
ER

PT J
AU Al-Mousawi, FN
   Homod, RZ
   Dhaidan, NS
   AL-Dadah, R
   Mahmoud, S
   Elsayed, E
   Youssef, P
   Nile, BK
   Elsayed, A
AF Al-Mousawi, Fadhel Noraldeen
   Homod, Raad Z.
   Dhaidan, Nabeel S.
   AL-Dadah, Raya
   Mahmoud, Saad
   Elsayed, Eman
   Youssef, Peter
   Nile, Basim K.
   Elsayed, Ahmed
TI Investigation performance of adsorption system for desalination and
   power generation using superior adsorbent materials
DE Adsorption; Desalination; Power generation; Low to medium grade heat
   sources; Advance adsorbent materials
ID LOW-GRADE HEAT; GEL PLUS WATER; ORGANIC RANKINE-CYCLE;
   NUMERICAL-SIMULATION; REFRIGERATION CYCLE; WASTE HEAT; THERMODYNAMIC
   ANALYSIS; ALUMINUM FUMARATE; MASS RECOVERY; KALINA CYCLE
AB Adsorption technology can offer a solution for secure power and freshwater resources by generating potable water and electricity simultaneously. The present study highlights the feasibility of using adsorption technology in generating drinkable water and electricity concurrently utilising thermal sources. Modern adsorbents with super water uptake like MIL101 Cr can generate a large amount of potable water with electric power utilising thermal energy like solar thermal energy. Experimentally, MIL101 Cr outperforms the other studied adsorbents in terms of adsorption/desorption performance because it has a maximum adsorption uptake of approximately 1.47 kg/kgads and high adsorption kinetics. A two-bed adsorption cycle is used to produce potable water and electric power while using low-to-medium-grade heat sources. Potable water is generated in the condenser, while the electricity is generated from an expander located between the condenser and the hot bed. According to numerical findings from the MATLAB Simulink modeling, the proposed system has the ability to generate a specific daily water production (SDWP) of about 60 l/kgads/day and a specific power (SP) of around 280 W/ kgads, which are both considered to be promising results. Also, maximum performance ratio (PR) and overall conversion ratio (OCR) of 76% and 82% can be achieved, respectively, by utilizing MIL101 Cr at a heating source temperature of 140 degrees C. MIL101 Cr shows the greatest performance in terms of SDWP, SP, PR and OCR. Numerical results also showed that SDWP and SP produced from the proposed system increase with increasing heat source temperature for all the materials tested in this investigation.
UT WOS:001046990000001
ER

PT J
AU Zhang, BJ
   Xiong, DH
   Tang, YF
   Liu, L
AF Zhang, Baojun
   Xiong, Donghong
   Tang, Yongfa
   Liu, Lin
TI Land surface roughness impacted by typical vegetation restoration
   projects on aeolian sandy lands in the Yarlung Zangbo River valley,
   southern Tibetan plateau
DE Aeolian desertification; Surface microtopographic variation; Near soil
   surface characteristics; Plant communities; Yarlung Zangbo River valley
ID WIND EROSION; SOIL ERODIBILITY; LOESS PLATEAU; DESERTIFICATION;
   DYNAMICS; MOISTURE; DESERT; SPEED; BASIN
AB Aeolian sandy lands are widespread and desertification is recognized as one of the main environmental issues in the Yarlung Zangbo River valley, southern Tibetan plateau. The surface microtopographic variations induced by the near soil surface characteristics of plant communities are important compositions of land surface roughness, which likely influence wind erosion. This study was conducted to quantify the effects of typical vegetation restoration on land surface roughness on the aeolian sandy lands, and to identify the main influencing factors of land surface roughness in the Yarlung Zangbo River valley. Two bare sandy lands (as controls) and eight vegetated sandy lands with different restoration communities and ages were selected, and land surface roughness (LSR), as represented by surface microtopographic variations in this study, was measured by photogrammetric surveys. The results showed that LSR significantly increased by 7.9-16.8 times after vegetation restoration on the aeolian sandy lands, and varied among different restoration communities and ages. The mostly restored communities of Sophora moorcroftiana and Populus L. had greater LSR as compared to Artemisia wellbyi and Hedysarum scoparium. With succession from 6 to over 30 years, LSR gradually increased in the Sophora moorcroftiana restored sandy lands, but decreased in the Populus L. restored sandy lands. The variations of LSR were mainly attributed to the differences in near soil surface characteristics of vegetation (plant stem diameter and coverage, and plant residue density) and biological soil crusts (coverage and thickness). Mixed plantation of Populus L. and Sophora moorcroftiana was considered as the best restoration communities because of their effectiveness in increasing land surface roughness on the aeolian sandy lands in the Yarlung Zangbo River valley. The results would facilitate the understanding of the benefits of vegetation restoration in controlling wind erosion on the aeolian sandy lands. (C) 2021 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd.
UT WOS:000744081400002
ER

PT J
AU Roy, R
   Sarker, T
   Monshi, FI
   Wang, JX
AF Roy, Rana
   Sarker, Tanwne
   Monshi, Fakhrul Islam
   Wang, Jinxin
TI Optimizing water and nutrient application for Caragana
   korshinskii-based vegetation restoration in coal-mine-degraded arid
   lands
DE Arid land ecological restoration; Caragana korshinskii; Growth
   physiology; Response surface methodology; W-N-P optimization; public of
   China
ID NITROGEN; REGENERATION; AREAS
AB Ecological degradation caused by coal mining is one of the most severe problems, especially in arid and semi-arid areas of northwestern China, where poor soil structure, low water content, and lack of nutrients obstruct vegetation restoration. Improving water and nutrient use efficiency is essential for successful revegetation in these environments, yet optimal regimes remain unclear. In this study, we evaluated the native shrub Caragana korshinskii as a candidate species for restoring coal mine-damaged areas by testing combinations of water (W), nitrogen (N), and phosphorus (P) supply. Under low-water regimes, plants exhibited marked reductions in height, stem diameter, biomass, photosynthetic traits, and relative water content, while N-P fertilization offered little benefit. When sufficient water was available, the combined application of N and P significantly enhanced growth. Water and nutrient limitation upregulated antioxidant enzymes (superoxide dismutase, catalase, peroxidase, and ascorbate peroxidase), leading to reduced oxidative damage. Our results indicate that supplying approximately 121 mm of water per year along with 54 kg ha(-1) N and 55 kg ha(-1) P optimizes the growth of C. korshinskii. These findings provide a practical and sustainable strategy for revegetation of coal-minedegraded lands and contribute to broader ecological restoration efforts. (c) 2025 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation and China Water and Power Press. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/ 4.0/).
UT WOS:001699041500001
ER

PT J
AU Roe, E
   van Eeten, M
AF Roe, E
   van Eeten, M
TI Reconciling ecosystem rehabilitation and service reliability mandates in
   large technical systems: Findings and implications, of three major US
   ecosystem management initiatives for managing human-dominated aquatic
   -terrestrial ecosystems
DE ecosystem rehabilitation; adaptive management; service reliability;
   large technical systems; high reliability; bandwidth management
ID ECONOMIC-GROWTH; CARRYING-CAPACITY; SCALE; BIODIVERSITY; ENVIRONMENT;
   LIFE; SUSTAINABILITY; CHALLENGE; COMPLEX; SCIENCE
AB How can decision makers reconcile the demand for increasingly reliable services drawn from the environment (including water and power) with the desire for both a better environment and more environmental amenities? In this paper, which is based on US case studies of ecosystem rehabilitation initiatives in the San Francisco Bay-Delta, the Columbia River Basin in the Pacific Northwest, and the Florida Everglades, we focus on several notable problems in current management practice. We assess the role of adaptive management and identify five areas of major innovation by which ecologists and the authorities that operate large water and hydropower systems attempt to reconcile the tension between maintaining service reliability and promoting ecological rehabilitation. The implications of the findings for a wider framework within which ecosystems can be matched to the most appropriate management regime are related specifically to aquatic-terrestrial ecosystems. Finally, we emphasize the importance of redefining ecosystem functions and services so that the inherent conflict between high-reliability services and ecosystem rehabilitation can be reconciled.
UT WOS:000178121000001
ER

PT C
AU Xiao, S
   Kolb, JF
   Bickes, C
   Minimitani, Y
   Laroussi, M
   Joshi, RP
   Schoenbach, KH
AF Xiao, S
   Kolb, JF
   Bickes, C
   Minimitani, Y
   Laroussi, M
   Joshi, RP
   Schoenbach, KH
GP IEEE
TI Recovery of high power water switches
ID BREAKDOWN
AB The recovery of water switches is determined by the expansion and decay of a vapor bubble that is generated and driven by the energy dissipated in the switch medium during switch closure. Shock waves that also carry away energy propagate through the switch volume much faster and have faded away before the vapor bubble reaches its maximum expansion. For water switches operating at energy levels of 1 J, we previously found a recovery time on the order of 1 ms, which is in agreement with the decay time of the vapor bubble. This allows for a repetitive switch operation at 1 kHz. We have extended the study of water switch recovery to higher energy levels, up to 50 J. As the energy is increased, it takes about 10 ms for the switch gap to become clear again. Although the absolute energy dissipated in shockwaves increases with the switching energy, the percentage of energy converted into kinetic energy decreases (20% for 15 J and 8% for 50 J).
UT WOS:000228358100035
ER

PT J
AU Luo, QY
   Yang, S
AF Luo, Qingyun
   Yang, Sheng
TI Design and performance analysis of liquid organic hydrogen carriers
   supply HT-PEMFC systems
DE Liquid organic hydrogen carriers; HT-PEMFC; Cooling and dehumidification
   systems; Combined heat and power system; Uncertainty analysis
ID HIGH-TEMPERATURE PEMFC; WASTE HEAT-RECOVERY; ENERGY; STORAGE; FLUID
AB This study proposes a novel multi-purpose system integrating liquid organic hydrogen carriers with hightemperature proton exchange membrane fuel cells. It innovatively couples the organic Rankine cycle, ammonia vapor compression refrigeration cycle, lithium chloride solution dehumidification cycle, and lithium bromide absorption refrigeration cycle to achieve multifunctional synergy in electricity generation, cooling, humidity control, and hot water supply. Based on Aspen Plus modelling, the system performance was evaluated across three dimensions: thermodynamics, exergy analysis, and uncertainty. Results indicate that under specified operating conditions, the system achieves net electricity efficiency of 41.79%, exergy efficiency of 79.72%, dehumidification rate of 85.1%, and coefficient of performance of 5.31 for the air conditioning and dehumidification system. The overall system energy efficiency stands at 1.6, demonstrating a significant advantage over existing research. In particular, the high-temperature proton exchange membrane fuel cell exhibits the highest exergy loss ratio, accounting for 62.3% of total losses. Uncertainty analysis indicates that among external parameters, fuel input volume exerts the most significant influence on system performance; internally, the exchange current density plays a dominant role. This research breaks through the primary limitation that the integration of liquid organic hydrogen carriers with proton exchange membrane fuel cells has been confined to automotive applications. It expands avenues for the high-value use of liquid organic hydrogen carriers, holding significant engineering application value for advancing the sustainable development of the hydrogen economy.
UT WOS:001595403400001
ER

PT J
AU Opricovic, S
   Tzeng, GH
AF Opricovic, S
   Tzeng, GH
TI Multicriteria planning of post-earthquake sustainable reconstruction
AB A multicriteria model is developed for analyzing the planning strategies for reducing the future social and economic costs in the area with potential natural hazard. The developed multicriteria decision-making procedure consists of generating alternatives, establishing criteria, assessment of criteria weights, and application of the compromise ranking method (VIKOR). The alternatives are the scenarios of sustainable hazard effects mitigation, generated in the form of comprehensive reconstruction plans, including the redevelopment of urban areas and infrastructures, multipurpose land use, and restrictions on building in hazardous areas. The plans have to be evaluated according to the criteria representing public safety, sustainability, social environment, natural environment, economy, culture, and politics. The multicriteria model can treat all relevant conflicting effects and impacts in their representative units. The evaluation of alternatives is implicated with imprecision (or uncertainty) of established criteria, and the fuzzy multicriteria model is developed to deal with "qualitative" (unquantifiable or linguistic) or incomplete information. The application of this model is illustrated with the post-earthquake reconstruction problem in Central Taiwan, including the restoration concerning the safe and serviceable operation of "lifeline" systems, such as electricity, water and transportation networks, immediately after a severe earthquake.
UT WOS:000174750600008
ER

PT J
AU Wang, SS
   Li, B
AF Wang, Shunsen
   Li, Bo
TI Thermodynamic Analysis and Optimization of a Novel Power-Water
   Cogeneration System for Waste Heat Recovery of Gas Turbine
DE power-water cogeneration system; supercritical carbon dioxide Brayton
   cycle; reverse osmosis; thermodynamic analysis; optimization
ID MULTI EFFECT DISTILLATION; ORGANIC RANKINE-CYCLE; REVERSE-OSMOSIS;
   PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS; THERMOECONOMIC ANALYSIS; SEAWATER DESALINATION;
   DESIGN; ENERGY; MARKET; S-CO2
AB A power-water cogeneration system based on a supercritical carbon dioxide Brayton cycle (SCBC) and reverse osmosis (RO) unit is proposed and analyzed in this paper to recover the waste heat of a gas turbine. In order to improve the system performance, the power generated by SCBC is used to drive the RO unit and the waste heat of SCBC is used to preheat the feed seawater of the RO unit. In particular, a dual-stage cooler is employed to elevate the preheating temperature as much as possible. The proposed system is simulated and discussed based on the detailed thermodynamic models. According to the results of parametric analysis, the exergy efficiency of SCBC first increases and then decreases as the turbine inlet temperature and split ratio increase. The performance of the RO unit is improved as the preheating temperature rises. Finally, an optimal exergy efficiency of 52.88% can be achieved according to the single-objective optimization results.
UT WOS:000737180500001
ER

PT J
AU Diez, O
   Silva, A
AF Diez, Oscar
   Silva, Andres
TI Resilience of Cloud Computing in Critical Systems
DE reliability; dependability; critical systems; critical infrastructure;
   resilience; cloud computing
ID ENVIRONMENTS
AB With the increasing utilisation of Internet services and cloud computing by many organisations (both private and public), it is clear that computing is becoming the fifth utility (along with water, electricity, telephony and gas). These technologies are used for almost all types of systems, and critical systems are now no exception. Even if critical systems appear not to rely directly on cloud services, there may be hidden interdependencies that could affect their resilience. This paper investigates the uses of cloud computing in relation to critical systems and how this affects their resilience, initially comparing it with existing models and frameworks. Some examples are presented together with the associated risks. A framework is introduced for analysing the dependability and resilience of a system that relies on cloud services and how to improve them. As part of the framework, the concepts of micro and macro dependability are introduced to explain the internal and external dependability on services supplied by an external cloud. A pharmacovigilance model system has been used for framework validation. Copyright (c) 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
UT WOS:000333012500008
ER

PT J
AU Erdiwansyah
   Mahidin
   Husin, H
   Nasaruddin
   Zaki, M
   Muhibbuddin
AF Erdiwansyah
   Mahidin
   Husin, H.
   Nasaruddin
   Zaki, M.
   Muhibbuddin
TI A critical review of the integration of renewable energy sources with
   various technologies
DE Integration RE; Energy source; Technology system energy; Power system;
   Variable RE
ID LIFE-CYCLE ASSESSMENT; POWER-SYSTEM; WIND POWER; DISTRIBUTION NETWORK;
   ELECTRICITY-GENERATION; DISTRIBUTED GENERATION; GRID INTEGRATION; PV
   SYSTEM; STORAGE; SOLAR
AB Wind power, solar power and water power are technologies that can be used as the main sources of renewable energy so that the target of decarbonisation in the energy sector can be achieved. However, when compared with conventional power plants, they have a significant difference. The share of renewable energy has made a difference and posed various challenges, especially in the power generation system. The reliability of the power system can achieve the decarbonization target but this objective often collides with several challenges and failures, such that they make achievement of the target very vulnerable, Even so, the challenges and technological solutions are still very rarely discussed in the literature. This study carried out specific investigations on various technological solutions and challenges, especially in the power system domain. The results of the review of the solution matrix and the interrelated technological challenges are the most important parts to be developed in the future. Developing a matrix with various renewable technology solutions can help solve RE challenges. The potential of the developed technological solutions is expected to be able to help and prioritize them especially cost-effective energy. In addition, technology solutions that are identified in groups can help reduce certain challenges. The categories developed in this study are used to assist in determining the specific needs and increasing transparency of the renewable energy integration process in the future.
UT WOS:000621949200001
ER

PT J
AU Gadalla, B
   Schaltz, E
   Zhou, D
   Blaabjerg, F
AF Gadalla, Brwene
   Schaltz, Erik
   Zhou, Dao
   Blaabjerg, Frede
TI Lifetime Prediction of Boost, Z-source and Y-source Converters in a Fuel
   Cell Hybrid Electric Vehicle Application
DE lifetime prediction; reliability; DC; DC converters; fuel cell hybrid
   electric vehicles; Z-source converter; Y-source converter; Miner rule;
   Coffin-Manson; Semikron; rain flow counting; junction temperature;
   consumed life
ID RELIABILITY; FATIGUE; IGBTS
AB Fuel cells are a very promising source of energy since they are pollution free, producing only electricity, water and heat. Fuel cells have been applied to DC/DC converters where the reliability and lifetime are of high importance. In this article, a lifetime prediction model is applied for the power semiconductors, which are used in a Boost, Z-source and Y-source fuel cell DC/DC converter, in a fuel cell hybrid electric vehicle application. Coffin-Manson and Semikron lifetime models for the IGBTs solder and bond wire fatigues are considered and compared in the three DC/DC converters. In order to estimate the lifetime of the converters, a mission profile is taken into account to estimate the impact of the IGBTs junction temperature during steady state operation. In addition to the thermal stresses generated due to the power losses during the converter operation, a case study of Artemis Motorway 130 Driving Cycle is considered in this analysis. Lifetime consumption and the expected number of years before failure is presented and compared for the three converters. The lifetime estimation results shows for this study that the Z-source converter has a longer lifetime compared to the conventional boost and Y-source converter.
UT WOS:000467956100007
ER

PT C
AU Kundu, A
   Nasipuri, A
   Chowdhury, B
   Prabhu, D
   Mahesh, K
   Grafer, C
   Ravi, D
   Subramanian, KR
AF Kundu, Arnab
   Nasipuri, Asis
   Chowdhury, Badrul
   Prabhu, Darshan
   Mahesh, Krupa
   Grafer, Christopher
   Ravi, Divya
   Subramanian, K. R.
GP IEEE
TI Low Cost Wireless Sensors for Distribution Grid Intelligence and
   Resiliency
DE Wireless sensors; sensor network; power system; MicaZ; Distributed
   Energy Resources
AB Extreme weather events have been known to cause massive disruptions in power leading to significant outages in the recent past. The main goal of this study is to improve situation intelligence in the distribution grid to determine the downed lines, impacted areas, location of healthy lines and nodes, and the amount of distributed generation available at customer locations to serve the critical loads (health care facilities, law enforcement, natural gas delivery network, gasoline pumping stations, water distribution facilities, etc.). A multi-tiered wireless sensor network is designed that has the ability to report to the substation with information on the attributes of an outage, including location, possible extent of the outage, and potential use of DER for backup power. An interactive visualization software is developed to display the sensor data.
UT WOS:000403420500053
ER

PT J
AU Dourado, GF
   Rheinheimer, DE
   Abaztoglou, JT
   Viers, JH
AF Dourado, Gustavo Facincani
   Rheinheimer, David E.
   Abaztoglou, John T.
   Viers, Joshua H.
TI Stress Testing California's Hydroclimatic Whiplash: Potential
   Challenges, Trade-Offs and Adaptations in Water Management and
   Hydropower Generation
DE climate change; atmospheric river; extreme events; droughts and floods;
   San Joaquin River
ID CLIMATE-CHANGE IMPACTS; VULNERABILITY; FUTURE; RELIABILITY; RESILIENCE;
   DROUGHT; STORAGE; RIVER
AB Inter-annual precipitation in California is highly variable, and future projections indicate an increase in the intensity and frequency of hydroclimatic "whiplash." Understanding the implications of these shocks on California's water system and its degree of resiliency is critical from a planning perspective. Therefore, we quantify the resilience of reservoir services provided by water and hydropower systems in four basins in the western Sierra Nevada. Using downscaled runoff from 10 climate model outputs, we generated 200 synthetic hydrologic whiplash sequences of alternating dry and wet years to represent a wide range of extremes and transitional conditions used as inputs to a water system simulation model. Sequences were derived from upper (wet) and lower (dry) quintiles of future streamflow projections (2030-2060). Results show that carryover storage was negatively affected in all basins, particularly in those with lower storage capacity. All basins experienced negative impacts on hydropower generation, with losses ranging from 5% to nearly 90%. Reservoir sizes and inflexible operating rules are a particular challenge for flood control, as in extremely wet years spillage averaged nearly the annual basins' total discharge. The reliability of environmental flows and agricultural deliveries varied depending on the basin, intensity, and duration of whiplash sequences. Overall, wet years temporarily rebound negative drought effects, and greater storage capacity results in higher reliability and resiliency, and lesser volatility in services. We highlight potential policy changes to improve flexibility, increase resilience, and better equip managers to face challenges posed by whiplash while meeting human and environmental needs.
   Inter-annual precipitation is naturally highly variable in California, and future projections indicate an increase in the intensity and frequency of hydroclimatic "whiplash." This study investigates the potential impacts of these hydroclimatic events to comprehend their implications on California's water system and its level of resilience, which holds critical importance from a planning perspective. We focus on four basins in the western Sierra Nevada, to quantify the resilience of reservoir services provided by the water and hydropower systems in the region. Using downscaled runoff data from 10 climate models, we generated 200 synthetic hydrologic whiplash sequences to represent combinations of extreme wet and dry conditions. Results show that all basins experienced negative effects on carryover storage, with losses ranging from 5% to nearly 90%, consequently decreasing hydropower generation. Flood control is challenged during extremely wet years due to reservoir sizes and operating rules. The reliability of environmental flows and agricultural deliveries varied across basins and whiplash sequences. Wet years tend to mitigate negative drought effects temporarily, and greater storage capacity improved the reliability and resilience of services. We highlight the need for potential policy changes to enhance flexibility and resilience, and equip managers to face challenges posed by whiplash.
   Wet years can temporarily rebound negative drought effects, although challenging flood control due to reservoir sizes and operating rules. Environmental flows and agricultural deliveries oscillated depending on the basin, intensity, and duration of whiplash sequences. Greater storage capacity generally provided greater reliability and resiliency, and lesser volatility in water and power services.
UT WOS:001258717200001
ER

PT J
AU Golem, DL
   Byrd-Bredbenner, C
AF Golem, Devon L.
   Byrd-Bredbenner, Carol
TI Emergency Food Supplies in Food Secure Households
DE disaster planning; emergency-induced food insecurity; emergency
   preparedness; food supply; household calorie days
ID PREPAREDNESS; NUTRITION; RECEIPTS; ENERGY; FAT
AB Introduction: Limited food supply paired with reduced access to food during emergency disasters can lead to malnutrition. To date, research evaluating the adequacy of household emergency food supplies relies on self-reported data from surveys and has not been measured objectively in households in the United States. The main objective of this study was to describe household calorie availability and nutrient density in a normal situation and to project changes that could occur when emergencies (eg, natural disasters) restrict replenishment of food supplies and disrupt water and/or energy needed for food preparation and storage.
   Hypothesis: The calorie availability of the food supply within households in New Jersey (USA) is anticipated to be well above the recommended 3-day period. However, it is anticipated that the nutritional density of the food supply within these households will be negative. Additionally, the disaster-related factors that diminish the ability to consume stored food (eg, lack of water, power for cooking, and/or proper storage) will further reduce the caloric and nutritional adequacy of the household food supply.
   Methods: The household food supplies of 100 food secure families in New Jersey were inventoried at a non-emergency point in time. The number of days that the inventoried food supply would provide all household members 100% of the daily value (DV) for calories and other nutrients was determined. Additionally, the effects of water and power shortages on nutritional availability of household food supply were estimated.
   Results: The households had an average of 33.16 days (SD = 21.97; range = 8.14-125.17 days) of calories at 100% DV for all household members. Lack of water, energy for cooking, or both would render a decrease in the total household calories by 28%, 35%, or 38%, respectively. Loss of power for greater than five days would reduce availability of household calories by 27%. A positive nutrient density was observed with and without the food-related resources of water and power.
   Conclusion: The mean food supply within the sampled households exceeds the current emergency preparedness recommendations, even when considering specific nutrients and emergency-related factors that affect ability to consume the food supply. Cross-sectional observation of the household food supply of food secure families in New Jersey reveals adequate dietary-based emergency preparedness and low vulnerability to emergency-induced food insecurity.
UT WOS:000364708700007
ER

PT J
AU Guidotti, R
   Gardoni, P
   Chen, YG
AF Guidotti, Roberto
   Gardoni, Paolo
   Chen, Yuguo
TI Network reliability analysis with link and nodal weights and auxiliary
   nodes
DE System reliability; Networks analysis; Measures of connectivity;
   Transportation network
ID MONTE-CARLO-SIMULATION; SYSTEM RELIABILITY; CELLULAR-AUTOMATA;
   RISK-ASSESSMENT; PERFORMANCE; FAILURES; BRIDGES; MODELS; DETERIORATION;
   CAPACITY
AB Networks are omnipresent, with examples in many different fields, from biological networks (such as the nervous and cardiovascular system) to physical networks (such as roadways, railways, and electrical power and water supply systems) to technological networks (such as the World Wide Web) and social network (such as the community network among people or animals). This paper proposes a novel probabilistic methodology to quantify the network reliability based on existing (diameter and efficiency) and new (eccentricity and heterogeneity) measures of connectivity that incorporate link and nodal weights and auxiliary nodes. Nodal and link weights are introduced to take into account the importance of the components in the topology-based network model. Unweighted auxiliary nodes, locally refining the network model, allow one to capture the complexity of the connections between weighted end-nodes. The formulation presented in this paper is general and applicable to networks in different fields. The paper illustrates the implementation of the proposed formulation considering a transportation network subject to seismic excitation. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000397367500002
ER

PT J
AU Hashemian, F
   Liao, HT
   Azucena, J
   Pohl, EA
AF Hashemian, Farid
   Liao, Haitao
   Azucena, Jose
   Pohl, Edward A.
TI A Machine Learning Framework for Joint Reliability Improvement and
   Maintenance of All-Terminal Networks
DE Reliability; Maintenance; Network topology; Topology; Maintenance
   engineering; Computer network reliability; Estimation; Computational
   efficiency; Accuracy; Graph neural networks; Deep reinforcement
   learning; graph neural networks; maintenance management; network
   reliability
ID DESIGN
AB Critical infrastructures, such as transportation, power, water, and communication networks, are vital to a nation's economic and productive activities. Since these infrastructures are often vulnerable to failures caused by aging, natural hazards, and human-induced disturbances, it is crucial to efficiently assess their reliability over time and make necessary improvements against failures. As one of the most important measures for network reliability, all-terminal network reliability is defined as the probability that all nodes in a network are fully connected. However, as the numbers of edges and nodes increase, calculating all-terminal network reliability using an exact approach is extremely time consuming and sometimes becomes infeasible within a limited time. The technical barrier is more significant when the goal is to improve and/or maintain the reliability of an existing infrastructure network, as the reliability of the network with a time-dependent topology must be constantly evaluated and optimized sequentially. To overcome these challenges, we propose the use of graph neural networks (GNNs) to efficiently estimate all-terminal network reliability and provide a sequential network optimization framework by taking advantage of deep reinforcement learning (DRL). Specifically, given an existing network and available resources, the goal is to determine the best sequence of maintenance, repair, and topology changes to maximize the network's all-terminal reliability over a finite time horizon. Our numerical experiments show that the GNN model outperforms those alternatives (e.g., deep neural network, convolutional neural network, Monte Carlo (MC) simulation) reported in previous studies in estimating all-terminal network reliability, and the DRL framework can efficiently suggest a sequence of maintenance or improvement actions to assist decision makers in achieving their reliability goals for infrastructure systems.
UT WOS:001731025600002
ER

PT J
AU Elsayed, I
   Kanaan, H
   Mehanna, M
AF Elsayed, Ibrahim
   Kanaan, Hamdy
   Mehanna, Mohammed
TI Feasibility and optimal sizing analysis of hybrid PV/Wind powered
   seawater desalination system: A case study of four ports, Egypt
DE Sea water desalination; Hybrid PV/Wind; Optimization; Homer; Economic
   evaluation
ID MEMBRANE TECHNOLOGY; ECONOMIC-ANALYSIS; ENERGY; WATER; INTEGRATION;
   OPERATION; MODEL
AB This research aims to investigate A novel and complete system consists of hybrid renewable energy farm with high-energy-consuming seawater desalination in fourth locations in Egypt. This paper proposes fuzzy-based multi-criteria decision-making model for optimal sizing of a hybrid PV/Wind/Storage system to power the reverse osmosis (RO) desalination process in order to increase freshwater availability and meet the electric load requirement in selected area. Firstly, according to collected data and cost of electricity (COE) for various renewable energy resources, specific procedures to determining the optimal system design and optimal sizing (solar cell, wind turbine parameter and storage system units) are presented for selected site. The optimization based on finding the minimum net present cost (NPC) feeds the load demand and maintains the system's reliability. Secondly, the fuzzy analytic hierarchy process (FAHP) is implemented to select the optimal system considering ten performance criteria. The results show that the feasible design consists of 16 & times; 100-kWwind turbines, 4127-kW photovoltaic array, 153 PH245 storages and 710-kW converter. The feasible design has the optimal economic values among all criteria with least NPC, COE, and payback-period (PBP) of $9,08,046, 0.091$/kWh and 1.1 yr, respectively. Besides, it has a 100 % renewable energy system (RES). In contrast to recent studies that concentrated on incorporating renewable energy sources into desalination systems at specific Egyptian location. This approach is applied to different case studies with diverse renewable energy resources in multiple locations across Egypt, thus providing valuable insights for decision-makers tackling electricity and water shortages throughout Egypt. This research fills a gap in the optimization of hybrid renewable energy systems (HRES) by taking into account a variety of sustainability criteria, including technological feasibility, cost-effectiveness, emissions reduction, and socio-political considerations, in contrast to other studies that concentrated on single aims. Additionally, the research presents fuzzy logic and fuzzy-AHP and fuzzy-VIKOR decision-making techniques, enabling a comprehensive assessment of system design alternatives while taking uncertainties into consideration. In general, this study makes a significant addition to the field of renewable energy integration and gives decision-makers a framework for choosing the best answers to Egypt's water and electricity problems.
UT WOS:001770705800001
ER

PT C
AU Zhang, LX
   Zhao, WB
   Jiao, YB
AF Zhang Li Xiang
   Zhao Wei Bin
   Jiao Yong Bin
BE Liang, Z
   Li, X
TI Simulation and Optimization of Back Pressure Control for Circulating
   Fluidized Bed Boiler Unit with Unity of Three Towers
DE Unity of three towers; Back pressure control; Fuzzy PI control; Smith
   predictive compensation control; MATLAB simulation
AB Unity of three towers (i.e. indirect air cooling tower, a desulfurizing tower and a chimney) technology with energy saving and environmental protection, saving water and electricity, high heat efficiency characteristics and a range of promotion and application in coal - fired power generation, and achieved good economic and social benefits. Research and improvement of three in one automatic control technology, to ensure the safety and stability of units to improve the thermal efficiency is particularly important. combined with the use of a certain power plant in Shanxi Province three towers and technical operation of the unit, working state by indirect air cooling system for the unit back pressure is analyzed, the application of fuzzy PI-Smith predictor integrated control strategy, on the back pressure turbine automatic control system simulation and optimization. The results show that the stability and robustness of the system better; the adaptability to load change has achieved good control effect.
UT WOS:000373157300016
ER

PT J
AU Gong, BY
   Yang, HC
   Wu, SH
   Tian, YK
   Guo, XZ
   Xu, CX
   Kuang, WH
   Yan, JH
   Cen, KF
   Bo, Z
   Ostrikov, K
AF Gong, Biyao
   Yang, Huachao
   Wu, Shenghao
   Tian, Yikuan
   Guo, Xinzheng
   Xu, Chenxuan
   Kuang, Wenhao
   Yan, Jianhua
   Cen, Kefa
   Bo, Zheng
   Ostrikov, Kostya (Ken)
TI Multifunctional solar bamboo straw: Multiscale 3D membrane for
   self-sustained solar-thermal water desalination and purification and
   thermoelectric waste heat recovery and storage
DE Nanostructured natural membranes; Energy conversion and storage;
   Interfacial evaporation; Water desalination and purification;
   Thermoelectric heat recovery
AB Solar desalination and purification based on interfacial evaporation have great potential to alleviate global water scarcity. However, real-world interfacial evaporation suffers from several issues in clean water collection and solar-to-clean-water energy efficiency. Here, a new concept of multifunctional natural membrane interfacial evaporation (MNMIE) is demonstrated, achieving the whole cycle of energy conversion from solar energy harvesting to waste heat recovery and storage while effectively desalinating and purifying water. The 3D, multiscale membrane derived from sustainable bamboo presents a mean pore size of 150 nm and a porosity of 63.8%, comparable to the commercial membranes. The as-generated vapor from a self-sustained evaporation process is guided to permeate through the porous bamboo node into the bamboo chamber facing unfocused incident light (1 sun) and then condenses, resulting in a high water collection ratio of 81.0% and solar-to-clean water efficiency of 67.4%. Moreover, the waste heat from desalination is recovered through direct thermoelectric energy conversion and storage under unfocused solar light. The fully integrated cycle of energy conversion, storage, and utilization for clean water and electricity generation enabled by the multifunctional natural membrane is scalable, economic and represents a highly promising solution for sustainable energy cycles enabled by nanotechnology-empowered natural resources. (C) 2020 Published by Elsevier Ltd.
UT WOS:000598371500039
ER

PT J
AU Khan, S
   Bartley, R
   Kinsey-Henderson, A
   Hawdon, A
AF Khan, Sana
   Bartley, Rebecca
   Kinsey-Henderson, Anne
   Hawdon, Aaron
TI Response to comment by Daley et al., on "Assessing gully erosion and
   rehabilitation using multi temporal LiDAR DEMs: Case study from the
   Great Barrier Reef catchments, Australia"
DE Digital elevation models; (dis)connectivity; Restoration; Geomorphic
   change detection; Geomorphic effectiveness; GIS
ID ERROR
AB Daley et al. (2023a) argue that at least 10-15 years apart Digital Elevation Model (DEM) derived DEMs of Difference (DoD) surveys are needed to detect reliable geomorphic change within the gullied landscapes of the Great Barrier Reef, Australia. We acknowledge that the reliability of observed geomorphic change increases as more subtle geomorphic processes are detected with longer monitoring periods. As further good quality long-term legacy datasets become available, we encourage utilising these to improve con fidence in targeting erosion rehabilitation. However, our approach to consistently apply 2-3 year DoDs to contrasting gully morphologies enabled capture of more intense geomorphic processes acting over shorter timeframes and provided valuable and timely information on (i) contrasting erosional mechanisms and erosion rates between variable gully morphologies, and (ii) rehabilitation efforts undertaken. In this paper, we take the opportunity to concisely address all the concerns raised by Daley et al. (2023a). (c) 2024 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BYNC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
UT WOS:001273758000001
ER

PT J
AU Sivapalan, M
   Bowen, J
AF Sivapalan, Mayuran
   Bowen, Jerome
TI Decision frameworks for restoration & adaptation investment-Applying
   lessons from asset-intensive industries to the Great Barrier Reef
ID SUPPORT-SYSTEM; INFORMATION
AB Asset-intensive industries (including water and power utilities, mineral resources and energy) are those which require significant levels of capital investment in their assets in order to operate. These industries face challenges from uncertainty in resource availability and demand for end products, the intricate and complicated nature of their assets, and the complexity of the economic, ecological and social settings in which they operate. In these industries, the application of decision frameworks that account for this uncertainty and complexity in guiding asset investment and development is standard practice. Lessons from asset-intensive industries were applied during the concept feasibility phase of the Reef Restoration and Adaptation Program (RRAP) to establish the investment case for research and development into interventions to help the Great Barrier Reef (GBR) resist, adapt to, and recover from the impacts of climate change. The authors worked with RRAP partners to define a decision framework that included structured decision-making processes (SDM), a cost-benefit analysis (CBA), and a value of information (VoI) analysis, to establish the investment case for intervening on the GBR which led to success in securing Australian Government commitment for the next phase of the Program. With climate change expected to drive increased demand for significant levels of restoration and adaptation investment in large integrated social, ecological and economic assets (such as the GBR), the lessons from RRAP offer insights for the application of decision frameworks to inform public and private investment priorities.
UT WOS:000588376700039
ER

PT J
AU Jabari, F
   Mohammadi-Ivatloo, B
   Ghaebi, H
   Bannae-Sharifian, MB
AF Jabari, Farkhondeh
   Mohammadi-ivatloo, Behnam
   Ghaebi, Hadi
   Bannae-sharifian, Mohammad-Bagher
TI Biogas fueled combined cooling, desalinated water and power generation
   systems
DE Biogas; Compression chillers; Combined cooling; Potable water and power
   (CCWP) generation systems; Demand response programs (DRPs);
   Humidification dehumidification; desalination process (HDD)
ID REVERSE-OSMOSIS DESALINATION; ENERGY STORAGE-SYSTEM; ORGANIC
   RANKINE-CYCLE; THERMOECONOMIC ANALYSIS; MULTIGENERATION SYSTEM; SEAWATER
   DESALINATION; INTEGRATED-SYSTEM; GENETIC ALGORITHM; HEAT-RECOVERY; SOLAR
AB This paper designs a novel biogas fueled combined cooling, fresh water and power (CCWP) generation system, and investigates its performance under extremely-hot summer days. In this tri-generation system, biogas is used as clean resource to reduce emissions and consumption of fossil fuels. Six electrical chillers are used for cooling demand supply of a benchmark building located in Ahwaz, Iran. In addition, expected required power of chillers and building is supplied either by gas turbine cycle or by main grid (If total power consumed by chillers and electrical equipment is larger than output power of gas turbine, building owner pays for purchasing electricity from local power system to satisfy not-supplied demand). A low-grade waste heat is extracted from the flue gases for preheating purpose and closed-air open-water humidification dehumidification (HDH) desalination process. In addition, a mixed integer non-linear programming problem is solved to minimize an objective function composed of daily electricity cost, total capital investment, operation and maintenance cost of CCWP generation system considering all operational limitations of gas turbine cycle, chillers, HDH process, and strategic cooling and electrical demand response programs (DRPs). If ambient air decreases, gas turbine power and mas flow rate of potable water will be increased due to lower compressor power and higher absolute humidity of air, respectively. Application of DRPs reduces total electricity cost from 31.2$ to 16.4$. Utilization of biogas and waste heat recovery of flue gases with no need to combustion of fossil fuels results in emission reduction. Hence, this tri-generation plant is called a net-zero emission system. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000463122100081
ER

PT C
AU Hanafi, AS
   Mostafa, GM
   Fathy, A
   Waheed, A
AF Hanafi, A. S.
   Mostafa, G. M.
   Fathy, A.
   Waheed, A.
BE Yan, J
   Shamim, T
   Chou, SK
   Li, H
TI Thermo-Economic Analysis of Combined Cycle MED-TVC Desalination System
DE Performance analysis; combined cycle; Gas turbine; HRSG; steam turbine;
   MED desalination
ID POWER-PLANTS; COGENERATION; DESIGN; WATER; HEAT
AB In the present work, thermo-economic model of a superstructure combined cogeneration power plant is studied. Engineering Equation Solver "EES" code is used to study the enhancement of the thermal performance, the environmental impact and the economics cost of the plant. Optimum design point for maximum production of power and water is obtained, through developing mathematical model of separate system, and combined cogeneration system, at different operating conditions. Also, economics model, including capital cost of each unit, fuel cost, operating and maintenance cost, is developed. It is concluded that, the combined cogeneration system can save about 20.6% of Total Annual Cost "TAC" compared with separate power and water production system. The cogeneration plant consists of Gas Turbine (GT), Heat Recovery Steam Generator (HRSG), Steam Turbine (ST) and Multi Effect -Thermo Vapor Compressor Desalination System (MED-TVC). (C) 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
UT WOS:000361030001070
ER

PT C
AU Al-Obaidli, H
   AlNouss, A
   Bicer, Y
   Al-Ansari, T
AF Al-Obaidli, Houd
   AlNouss, Ahmed
   Bicer, Yusuf
   Al-Ansari, Tareq
BE Pierucci, S
   Manenti, F
   Bozzano, GL
   Manca, D
TI Portfolio Optimisation of Integrated Renewable Energy Cogeneration
   Systems
DE Solar; Biomass; Cogeneration; Techno-economic; Portfolio optimisation
AB The global energy sector is predominated by fossil fuels for the production of electricity and freshwater. This is more pronounced in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) region experiencing fast economic growth driven by major oil and gas infrastructure. Conventional cogeneration systems typically encounter higher operational efficiencies and relatively lower costs compared to renewables-based systems. Their use of fossil fuels as a primary energy source generates high levels of CO2 emissions resulting in a substandard environmental performance per capita. Renewable energy sources can be integrated into the energy portfolio mix to improve overall resilience and diversification, whilst improving on overall sustainability as environmental emissions are restrained. In this study, an integration of solar and biomass renewable energy into existing energy infrastructure is proposed and analysed using Aspen Plus. The focus is to compare different water and power cogeneration configurations and identify the optimal configuration using MATLAB's optimisation toolbox. A techno-economic assessment is performed to review the effects of renewable energy integration on the overall performance of the grid. The optimal configuration indicate overall levelised costs and emissions approximated at $0.79 and 184.78 gCO(2)e per unit output, respectively, compared to $2.61 and 350.01 gCO(2)e per unit output for the base case. The results demonstrate improvements in the environmental and economic performance. The integration of renewable energy into a portfolio mix offer significant economic and environmental advantages and can be considered a promising and viable option for the provision of water and electricity in the GCC region.
UT WOS:000652152900240
ER

PT J
AU Kollar, A
   Grady, C
AF Kollar, Abbey
   Grady, Caitlin
TI The relationship between data centers and the climate is a systems
   challenge: a spatial analysis of United States data centers
DE data center; spatial analysis; extreme weather; climate risk; heat
   stress; water stress; Infrastructure siting
ID SUSTAINABLE DATA CENTERS; LOCATION; SELECTION
AB Data centers are a rapidly growing infrastructure that support digital and artificial intelligence needs. However, their expansion has raised concerns about impact based on electricity and water usage. Beyond quantifying the impact of the data center on the environment, this study presents an energy-climate operational risk analysis of over 2,400 data centers in the United States, focusing on location-specific water and heat risks and the dependency of emissions on local energy mixes. Findings highlight that current framing around the sustainability and reliability of data center operations could benefit from systems approaches for a more holistic understanding. We find that many data centers are in regions with significant water stress and are exposed to heat waves. These operational risks, along with the emissions variability due to regional grid differences, underscore the need for sustainable and reliable future planning of data centers.
UT WOS:001611099000001
ER

PT J
AU Qureshi, N
   Saha, BC
   Cotta, MA
   Singh, V
AF Qureshi, N.
   Saha, B. C.
   Cotta, M. A.
   Singh, V.
TI An economic evaluation of biological conversion of wheat straw to
   butanol: A biofuel
DE Butanol; Wheat straw; Acetone-butanol-ethanol (ABE); Economics; Butanol
   price
ID CLOSTRIDIUM-BEIJERINCKII BA101; ABE FERMENTATION BROTH; SIMULTANEOUS
   SACCHARIFICATION; PERVAPORATIVE RECOVERY; BATCH FERMENTATION;
   AGRICULTURAL WASTE; AQUEOUS-SOLUTIONS; PART I; ACETOBUTYLICUM; ETHANOL
AB A cost estimation study was performed for a biological butanol production plant with a capacity of 150 x 10(6) kg butanol/year. Wheat straw (WS) was used as a feedstock. In addition to butanol, acetone (78.05 x 10(6) kg/year) and ethanol (28.54 x 10(6) kg/year) would also be produced. The total capital cost for this plant was $193.07 x 10(6). This exercise was based in part on data generated in our laboratory and in part on data obtained from literature. The design, mass balance, and energy balance simulations were performed using SuperPro Designer (Version 8.5003, 2012). For butanol production wheat straw would be pretreated with dilute (1% v/v) sulfuric acid at 121 degrees C for 1 h followed by separate hydrolysis (using enzymes), fermentation and recovery. Enzyme cost for wheat straw hydrolysis was adapted from literature ($0.16/kg butanol). Utilities which included steam/high pressure steam, cooling/chilling water, and electricity represented the major cost of the operation (49.18%) followed by raw materials (26.81%). Based on batch fermentation of wheat straw hydrolysate and distillative recovery of acetone butanol ethanol (ABE), butanol production cost was estimated to be $1.30/kg for a grass-rooted/green-field plant. Application of a membrane recovery process could reduce this price to $1.00/kg for a plant annexed to an existing distillery. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
UT WOS:000313134500051
ER

PT J
AU Rizi, DT
   Nazari, MH
   Hosseinian, SH
AF Rizi, Daryoush Tavangar
   Nazari, Mohammad Hassan
   Hosseinian, Seyed Hossein
TI Securing smart farms: Data-driven integration of renewable energy and
   desalination for sustainable agriculture
DE Desalination; Freshwater supply; Water-energy management; Fuzzy Logic;
   Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost); Cyber security
AB Ensuring sustainable freshwater and energy supply in smart farms requires the secure and efficient integration of renewable energy sources (RESs) with reverse osmosis desalination (ROD) units. However, these interconnected systems are increasingly vulnerable to cyber-attacks such as false data injection (FDI), which can compromise operational reliability and resource efficiency. This study proposes a novel hybrid data-driven control strategy that combines Fuzzy Logic and Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost) to detect and correct tampered water and electricity demand data in renewable-powered desalination networks. Unlike existing methods, this integrated approach not only restores data integrity but also dynamically stabilizes supply-demand operations during and after cyber incidents. Simulation results show that the method reduces the mean absolute percentage error (MAPE) to 5.03 % for electricity and 3.86 % for water demand, correcting deviations caused by attacks of up to 21.47 % (electricity) and 17.18 % (water). The framework enhances the cyber-resilience, operational stability, and sustainability of Smart Energy Hubs (SEHs), offering a robust foundation for future secure smart farming and agricultural water-energy management systems.
UT WOS:001555356200004
ER

PT C
AU Frank, TE
   Ankney, AJ
   Miller, JM
   Watson, BR
   Kim, KY
   Henigin, GP
   Mulholland, SM
AF Frank, Timothy E.
   Ankney, Alexander J.
   Miller, Jacob M.
   Watson, Bevan R.
   Kim, Kayla Y.
   Henigin, Garrett P.
   Mulholland, Sean M.
BE Akinci, B
   Berges, M
   Jazizadeh, F
   Menassa, CC
   Yeoh, J
TI Probabilistic Modeling of Infrastructure Reliability
AB Critical infrastructure reliability is vital to many industries, including the US Department of Defense (DoD). Modeling critical infrastructure and estimating system failures are key steps to identify the components in the greatest need for upgrade, recapitalization, or increased redundancy. Sensors and data integration through proprietary software are best practices that can aid in reliability-based infrastructure decision-making. This research, however, explores the viability of estimating system reliability without the use of sensors or software. This paper details a case study of one mission at an undisclosed US Space Force Base, wherein the authors developed a numerical fault tree model representing the supporting water, power, electrical, heating, ventilation, and air conditioning systems. Using multiple probability distributions, Monte Carlo simulations were employed to determine the overall system availability. Sensitivity analyses were performed by varying the parameters of the probability distributions. Additionally, a framework is provided that demonstrates the model's usefulness as a decision-support tool to incorporate reliability into maintenance and recapitalization decisions. This methodology shows promise to increase critical infrastructure reliability and provide data-driven recommendations to augment human experience or supplement the lack of expertise in DoD and non-DoD use cases. The views expressed in this paper are those of the authors and not necessarily reflect those of the United States Air Force Academy, the Air Force, the Department of Defense, or the US Government.
UT WOS:001669970000047
ER

PT J
AU Wei, T
   Wu, XY
   Zhang, T
   Cao, SJ
   Gu, ZL
   Luo, XL
AF Wei, Tong
   Wu, Xingyu
   Zhang, Tao
   Cao, Shijie
   Gu, Zhaolin
   Luo, Xilian
TI Efficacy of absorber-plateless PV/T system: With low-cost and
   energy-efficient plastic capillary exchanger
DE Solar energy; Photovoltaic/thermal solar collector; Plastic capillary
   heat exchanger; Conversion efficiency; Recovery temperature
ID SOURCE HEAT-PUMP; THERMAL PERFORMANCE; HOT; RADIANT; MODULE
AB The high cost of the metal heat exchangers employed in traditional photovoltaic/thermal (PV/T) solar systems has hindered the widespread adoption of this technology in buildings. To address this, a low-cost and efficient PV/T system utilizing plastic capillary mats as the heat recovery exchanger (PV/T-CHE), without an absorber plate, is proposed and established in this study. The thermal and electrical performances of the newly designed PV/T system are evaluated under various operating scenarios with hot water temperatures ranging from 30 degrees C to 50 degrees C. A comparison of the levelized cost of heat (LCoH) for the proposed PV/T-CHE and two traditional PV/T systems with metal heat exchangers is presented. The results show that the proposed PV/T can effectively produce hot water, achieving thermal efficiencies of 33.4 %, 28.1 %, and 26.4 % at heat recovery temperatures of 30 degrees C, 45 degrees C, and 50 degrees C, respectively. The corresponding overall efficiencies are 52.8 %, 46.9 %, and 45.1 %, respectively. These results demonstrate that heat recovery enhances the electrical efficiency by approximately 2.7 % compared with that of standard PV. The LCoH of the PV/T system is estimated to be between 0.010 and 0.013 USD/kWh, which is significantly lower than that of a PV/T system with metal heat exchangers. This novel cost-effective design simplifies installation, making the exchanger suitable for both new and retrofitted PV/T systems, with strong potential for large-scale applications to meet hot water and electricity needs in buildings.
UT WOS:001478744500001
ER

PT C
AU Takahashi, N
   Akiba, T
   Yamamoto, H
   Sung, SC
AF Takahashi, Natsumi
   Akiba, Tomoaki
   Yamamoto, Hisashi
   Sung, Shao-Chin
BE Xing, LD
   Tian, ZG
   Peng, R
   Zuo, MJ
TI Bi-objective Optimization of Network Reliability by Genetic Algorithm
DE network design problem; bi-objective network; all-terminal reliability;
   quasi-Pareto solutions; genetic algorithm
AB In the real world, many infrastructures, for example, the internet, power/water supply and traffics, are network systems where high reliability is required. Independently, these systems may need costs for the construction or maintenance of components. In this study, we consider a bi-objective network with objectives of maximizing all-terminal reliabilities and minimizing costs. In general, there is trade-off relation between reliability and cost, and these objectives cannot be optimized simultaneously. Therefore, solving the problem is to find the set of Pareto solutions. However, evaluating all-terminal reliability of a given network is computationally intractable, which means that this bi-objective problem is also computationally intractable Therefore, previous study provided a Genetic Algorithm (GA) obtaining a set of quasi-Pareto solutions. However, this algorithm needed much computing time when the number of nodes was large. In this study, we improve the previous GA algorithm. Proposed algorithm reconsiders parents selection such that all non-dominated solutions and good solutions are included as parents candidates in each generation. In addition, we analyze the GA process, and the properties and distributions of non-dominated solutions are reflected in crossover process. And then, numerical experiments evaluate superiority of proposed algorithm based on comparison with other algorithms.
UT WOS:000946387500016
ER

PT J
AU Ng, LC
   Payne, WV
AF Ng, Lisa C.
   Payne, W. Vance
TI Energy use consequences of ventilating a net-zero energy house
DE Air-to-air heat pump; Heat recovery ventilator; Net-zero energy
   buildings; Ventilation energy use
AB A Net-Zero Energy Residential Test Facility (NZERTF) has been constructed at the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) in Gaithersburg, Maryland, to demonstrate that a home similar in size, aesthetics, and amenities to those in the surrounding communities can achieve net-zero energy use over the course of a year while meeting the average electricity and water use needs of a family of four in the United States. The facility incorporates renewable energy and energy efficient technologies, including an air-to-air heat pump system, a solar photovoltaic system, a solar thermal domestic hot water system, and a heat recovery ventilation system sized to meet American Society of Heating, Refrigeration, and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) Standard 62.2-2010 ventilation requirements. The largest energy end use within the home was space conditioning, which included heat loss through the building envelope, ventilation air supplied by the heat recovery ventilator (HRV), and internal loads. While HRVs are often described as being able to save energy when compared to ventilating without heat recovery, there have been no studies using a full year of measured data that determine the thermal load and energy impacts of HRV-based ventilation on the central heating and cooling system. Over the course of a year, continuous operation of the HRV at the NZERTF resulted in an annual savings of 7% in heat pump energy use compared with the hypothetical case of ventilating without heat recovery. The heat pump electrical use varied from an increase of 5% in the cooling months to 36% savings in the heating months compared with ventilation without heat recovery. The increase in the cooling months occurred when the outdoor temperature was lower than the indoor temperature, during which the availability of an economizer mode would have been beneficial. Nevertheless, the fan energy required to operate the selected HRV at the NZERTF paid for itself in the heat pump energy saved compared with ventilation without heat recovery. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
UT WOS:000373863400017
ER

PT J
AU Eskandari, M
   Omidvar, B
   Modiri, M
   Nekooie, MA
AF Eskandari, Mohammad
   Omidvar, Babak
   Modiri, Mahdi
   Nekooie, Mohammad Ali
TI Model for Earthquake Damage Analysis in Lifeline Utility Systems with
   Consideration of Uncertainties
DE Critical infrastructure; Damage assessment; Monte Carlo simulation
   (MCS); Latin hypercube sampling (LHS); Seismic spatial analysis
ID RELIABILITY; COMPONENT; NETWORKS; SOFTWARE; RUPTURE
AB Considering the uncertain performance of lifelines with respect to earthquakes, the seismic assessment of critical infrastructures is of the utmost importance. The main purpose of this paper is to develop a model for critical infrastructures, with consideration of the uncertainties in a seismic damage analysis, using the Monte Carlo Simulation (MCS) and Latin hypercube sampling (LHS) methods. Accordingly, a system is designed, based on the geo-spatial information system to analyze the spatial data by the seismic hazard analysis, vulnerability assessment, and seismic damage analysis of critical infrastructures, including water, power, gas, and oil networks. In addition to the probabilistic based methods, the one-loop (1L) method also has been used to evaluate the damage analysis without considering the uncertainty. The estimated results from various methods have been compared, and it is concluded that the estimated peak ground acceleration (PGA) values are high in the central areas of the desired case study. Moreover, the permanent ground displacement (PGD) due to lateral spreading using the 1L method is higher than the estimated values based on MCS and LHS approaches. The outcomes based on the 1L method are within the range of 0-0.762 m and within the range of 0-0.381 m for MCS and LHS approaches. However, damages from MCS and LHS are equivalent, according to the Mann-Whitney test.
UT WOS:000557547000022
ER

PT C
AU Gourbesville, P
   Ghulami, M
AF Gourbesville, Philippe
   Ghulami, Masoud
BE Gourbesville, P
   Caignaert, G
TI Assessment of Smart Heating and Cooling System Based on Thermal Use of
   Shallow Aquifer
DE Geothermia; Smart energy grid; Heating and cooling network; Shallow
   unconfined aquifer; 3D groundwater modelling; Impact assessment; FEFLOW
ID GROUNDWATER-FLOW; MANAGEMENT; FEFLOW; RIVER; BASIN
AB All metropolis across the world are facing the challenges of the growing energy demand and the need to reduce the CO2 emissions. In order to match the two constraints, urban environments should diversify energy sources and maximize local opportunities offered by renewable resources. Within this context, water resources and especially groundwater represent potential alternatives that could provide an efficient answer to the development needs. Nice Cote d'Azur Metropolis gathers around 540,000 inhabitants with more than 350,000 for the city of Nice. Within a national strategic project, the metropolis is currently developing a new urban environment located within the low valley of the Var river and has decided to establish a multi-energy Smart Grid solution. The innovative technological approach is based on: storage of heat, production of cold and electricity, and also a cooling offer for individuals, resulting from the recovery of energy used to air-condition commercial buildings. The chosen solution is based on thermal use of the shallow unconfined aquifer located with the Var floodplain. The network is using surface geothermal energy from the alluvial aquifer. By 2029, it will cover the heating (7.2 GWh per year), air conditioning (15.5 GWh per year) and domestic hot water (7.5 GWh per year) needs of 520,000 m(2) of housing, hotels and additional residential facilities, shops, services and offices served by 1.6 km of geothermal network, 5.6 km of hot and cold networks and 94 sub-stations. The Nice Meridia area will thus be supplied by 82% renewable and recovered energy for heating and 78% for cooling. The development of the geothermal solution requests to pump and to reinject important volumes within the unconfined aquifer. In order to assess the potential impact of the solution on the existing uses (drinking water supply pumping stations), a 3D modelling approach has been deployed over the full groundwater resource of the Var valley. The model, built with FEFLOW solution, validated with field observation, can reproduce the behavior of the aquifer (flow dynamic and thermal). The results have demonstrated the efficiency of the 3D modelling approach and the possibility to use the geothermal resource without significant impact on the aquifer. The thermal use of the shallow unconfined aquifer represents a promising solution that could be duplicated in other locations where similar aquifers are present.
UT WOS:000865798000064
ER

PT J
AU Ahmed, KI
   Tahir, M
   Habaebi, MH
   Lau, SL
   Ahad, A
AF Istiaque Ahmed, Kazi
   Tahir, Mohammad
   Hadi Habaebi, Mohamed
   Lun Lau, Sian
   Ahad, Abdul
TI Machine Learning for Authentication and Authorization in IoT: Taxonomy,
   Challenges and Future Research Direction
DE Internet of Things; IoT; security; authentication; authorization;
   machine learning
ID WIRELESS SENSOR NETWORKS; TRUST MANAGEMENT MECHANISM; ACCESS-CONTROL;
   SECURITY TECHNIQUES; KEY AGREEMENT; INTERNET; THINGS; SCHEME; DEVICES;
   LIGHTWEIGHT
AB With the ongoing efforts for widespread Internet of Things (IoT) adoption, one of the key factors hindering the wide acceptance of IoT is security. Securing IoT networks such as the electric power grid or water supply systems has emerged as a major national and global priority. To address the security issue of IoT, several studies are being carried out that involve the use of, but are not limited to, blockchain, artificial intelligence, and edge/fog computing. Authentication and authorization are crucial aspects of the CIA triad to protect the network from malicious parties. However, existing authorization and authentication schemes are not sufficient for handling security, due to the scale of the IoT networks and the resource-constrained nature of devices. In order to overcome challenges due to various constraints of IoT networks, there is a significant interest in using machine learning techniques to assist in the authentication and authorization process for IoT. In this paper, recent advances in authentication and authorization techniques for IoT networks are reviewed. Based on the review, we present a taxonomy of authentication and authorization schemes in IoT focusing on machine learning-based schemes. Using the presented taxonomy, a thorough analysis is provided of the authentication and authorization (AA) security threats and challenges for IoT. Furthermore, various criteria to achieve a high degree of AA resiliency in IoT implementations to enhance IoT security are evaluated. Lastly, a detailed discussion on open issues, challenges, and future research directions is presented for enabling secure communication among IoT nodes.
UT WOS:000682179400001
ER

PT J
AU Lu, LQ
   Wang, X
   Ouyang, YF
   Roningen, J
   Myers, N
   Calfas, G
AF Lu, Liqun
   Wang, Xin
   Ouyang, Yanfeng
   Roningen, Jeanne
   Myers, Natalie
   Calfas, George
TI Vulnerability of Interdependent Urban Infrastructure Networks:
   Equilibrium after Failure Propagation and Cascading Impacts
ID LOCATION
AB The functionality of modern cities relies heavily on interdependent infrastructure systems such as those for water, power, and transportation. Disruptions often propagate within and across physical infrastructure networks and result in catastrophic consequences. The reaction of communities to disasters (e.g., seeking alternative resource sources) may further transfer and aggravate the burden on surviving infrastructures, which may facilitate cascading secondary disruptions. Hence, a holistic analysis framework that integrates infrastructure interdependencies and human community behaviors is needed to evaluate a city's vulnerability to disruptions and to assess the impact of a disaster. To this end, we develop a game-theoretical equilibrium model in a multilayer infrastructure network to systematically investigate the mutual influence between the infrastructures and the communities. Two types of infrastructure failure patterns are formulated to capture general network interdependencies; network equilibrium is extended into infrastructure and community systems to address redistribution of demand for life-supporting resources; the societal impact of disasters is estimated based on communities' resource demand loss, cost increase, as well as total infrastructure failures. A real-world case study based on Maiduguri, Nigeria, is implemented to demonstrate the proposed model and algorithm, and to reveal insights.
UT WOS:000429321600004
ER

PT J
AU Hassan, AS
   Fath, HE
AF Hassan, Ashraf Sadik
   Fath, Hassan Elbanna
TI Solar-driven dual-purpose plant with hybrid desalination system for
   harsh desert farms
DE Reverse osmosis; Multi-effect vacuum membrane distillation; Solar leaner
   Fresnel collector; Dual-purpose plant; Hybrid desalination system
ID TECHNOLOGY
AB This work presents the process design and operational performance of a small-scale solar-driven dual-purpose plant to generate electricity and produce desalinated freshwater. The plant consists of a hybrid desalination system of reverse osmosis (RO) and a vacuum multi-effect membrane distillation (V-MEMD), coupled with a solar linear Fresnel collector (LFC) and a turbo-generator system. The integrated system is designed to provide the optimum solution for big desert farms of high ground-water salinity (of 15,000 ppm and more). The RO is designed with 40% recovery and its brine is used to feed V-MEMD units of almost the same recovery of around 40%. The system (base case) is designed with turbo-generator to provide the plant and the farm with electrical power (rating 68 kW) while the hybrid desalination plant is designed with 617 m(3)/d capacity. Other scale up designs for electricity and water production will also be highlighted. The technical analysis of the dual-purpose system will be presented including; the plant specifications, process design and components sizing parameters of hybrid desalination plant and solar LFC.
UT WOS:000415823400007
ER

PT J
AU Lin, XL
   Xiao, QZ
   En, YF
   Yao, RH
AF Lin Xiao-Ling
   Xiao Qing-Zhong
   En Yun-Fei
   Yao Ruo-He
TI Failure mechanism of FC-PBGA devices under external stress
DE flip chip (FC); plastic ball gate array(PBGA); failure mechanism;
   external stress
ID IMPACT
AB Flip chip plastic ball grid array (FC-PBGA) is unique and has been widely used. During FC-PBGA's practical application, the analysis of its failure mechanisms under high temperature, electricity, water vapor and other comprehensive environmental stress conditions is very important for improving its application reliability. In this paper, with 0.13-mu m/6-level copper-based FPGA with FC-PBGA package, failure mode of the device is exposed under external stress, which is dominated with thermal-mechanical stress generated by high temperature thermal reflow process. And the failure mechanism corresponding to the failure mode is analyzed. Results show that the basic cause of the failure is the thermal-mechanical stress, which is induced by the combination of internal and external reflow temperature difference and high temperature reflow process when assembled. The thermal-mechanical stress makes the solder bumps on the flip chip melt again and bridges the adjacent solder bumps to lead to the device short failure. It also induces crack or delamination in the underfill, crack in solder bump or solder bump fallen off to lead to device open failure. The residual stress on Cu/low-k interconnect structures damages the structure integrity and affects the reliability of FC-PBGA packages.
UT WOS:000306394400075
ER

PT J
AU Ma, JH
   Xiao, TY
   Wang, X
   Liu, L
   Liu, C
AF Ma, Junhao
   Xiao, Tingyu
   Wang, Xi
   Liu, Lang
   Liu, Chao
TI Synergistic utilization of low-grade heat and salinity gradient for
   water-electricity cogeneration through thermal osmosis and nanofluidic
   reverse electrodialysis
DE Thermo-osmotic; Nanofluidic reverse electrodialysis; Water-electricity
   cogeneration; Large-scale application
ID CONTACT MEMBRANE DISTILLATION; SEAWATER DESALINATION; ENERGY-CONVERSION;
   EXERGY ANALYSIS; HYBRID SYSTEM; EFFICIENCY; POWER; PERFORMANCE; PROGRESS
AB As a promising method for low-grade thermal energy harvesting, thermo-osmotic systems have attracted substantial attention. However, insufficient focus has been placed on the issue of salt accumulation on the hot side of thermo-osmotic process. This study proposes an integrated system combining thermo-osmotic and nanofluidic reverse electrodialysis, which synergistically harnesses low-grade thermal energy and salt gradient energy generated by salt accumulation to achieve the dual objectives of wastewater treatment and sustainable energy recovery. A laboratory-scale prototype was constructed, while a mathematical model was formulated to explore the impact of critical operational parameters on energy efficiency, power density, and economics under scaled-up conditions. Experimental characterization coupled with simulations revealed marked performance enhancement on integrated system. Under 60 K temperature differential, the freshwater production capacity attained 231.38 kg/m2/day, and water production rate was 20 % higher than that before integration. At a salinity of 3.5 wt% and hydraulic pressure of 100 kPa, the energy efficiency achieves 1.64 %, accompanied by a power density of 2.27 W/m2. An optimal flow rate ratio between the cold-hot sides exists to achieve the optimum of system performance and economics. As the membrane area ratio increases, both energy efficiency and output power exhibit a declining trend. Economic modeling indicates that reducing membrane costs can significantly lower the system costs, while larger hydrophobic membranes demonstrate enhanced economic. This synergistic system effectively utilizes low-grade waste heat and establishes a scalable pathway for hypersaline gradient energy exploitation.
UT WOS:001630694500003
ER

PT C
AU Tsereteli, N
   Varazanashvili, O
   Arabidze, V
   Mukhadze, T
   Arevadze, N
AF Tsereteli, N.
   Varazanashvili, O.
   Arabidze, V.
   Mukhadze, T.
   Arevadze, N.
BE Avagyan, A
   Barry, DL
   Coldewey, WG
   Reimer, DWG
TI Seismic Hazard and Risk Assessment for Tbilisi - New Approaches
DE Tbilisi; inventory; built environment; site conditions; seismisity;
   vulnerability; seismic risk
ID HORIZONTAL COMPONENT; PERIODS; PGV
AB The main goal was to combine the analysis of the contemporary elements of risk inventories, seismicity and vulnerability, so as to assess seismic hazards and risks for Tbilisi. The inventories of the built environment were studied and converted into a GIS with the following categories: base map; building material types; number of storeys; number of entrances; condition of buildings; construction period of buildings; photos of old buildings; critical facilities, such as electricity, water aqueducts and supply, and transportation systems; high loss facilities; aerial photos; and election precincts with population sizes. Two maps of seismic site conditions were derived. The first map was constrained from topographic data at a large scale (1: 10,000) using a technique proposed by Trevor I. Allen and David J. The second map was created on the basis of the geo-engineering map at 1: 30,000 scale. Due to significant differences between these maps, the second one was chosen for the Seismic Hazard Assessment. The seismic hazards, expressed in PGA, were calculated using the program EZFRISK for a 10% probability of exceedence in 50 years and a 2% probability of exceedence in 50 years, using the Global Models of ground motion prediction equations by Boore and Atkinson (2008) PGA, and Campbell and Bozorognia (2008) PGA-SA. The classification of buildings was carried out using the inventory map. The assessment of seismic risks to houses in Tbilisi was carried out on the basis of the European Macro-seismic scale. Relative social risks and relative economic losses for 2% and 10% probability SH were estimated.
UT WOS:000351352000012
ER

PT J
AU McCordic, C
   Abrahamo, E
AF McCordic, Cameron
   Abrahamo, Ezequiel
TI Family Structure and Severe Food Insecurity in Maputo and Matola,
   Mozambique
DE food deserts; food security; urbanization; urban poverty; social
   networks
ID NUTRITION TRANSITION; RETAIL ACCESS; DESERTS; DIET
AB The rapid growth of Maputo and Matola (neighbouring cities in Mozambique) has dramatically shifted the vulnerability profiles of these cities. Poor neighbourhoods across these two cities may now face the prospect of becoming food deserts. Scholars have defined African urban food deserts by the co-occurrence of poverty and food insecurity. This study aims to assess the assumed relationship between resource poverty and food insecurity in the African urban food desert concept and to assess the contribution of household demographics to this relationship. Using household survey data collected in 2014 across Maputo and Matola, this investigation demonstrated that inconsistent access to water, electricity, medical care, cooking fuel, and cash was associated with increased odds of severe household food insecurity across both cities. In addition, a nuclear household family structure was associated with reduced odds of severe food insecurity in both cities (even when taking limited resource access into account). These findings suggest that the severe food insecurity vulnerabilities associated with African urban food deserts may differ according to the family structure of households in Maputo and Matola.
UT WOS:000457127300267
ER

PT J
AU Fuldauer, LI
   Thacker, S
   Haggis, RA
   Fuso-Nerini, F
   Nicholls, RJ
   Hall, JW
AF Fuldauer, Lena I.
   Thacker, Scott
   Haggis, Robyn A.
   Fuso-Nerini, Francesco
   Nicholls, Robert J.
   Hall, Jim W.
TI Targeting climate adaptation to safeguard and advance the Sustainable
   Development Goals
ID ECOSYSTEM SERVICES; TRADE-OFFS; RISK; FRAMEWORK; VULNERABILITY;
   SYNERGIES; LESSONS
AB The international community has committed to achieve 169 Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) targets by 2030 and to enhance climate adaptation under the Paris Agreement. Despite the potential for synergies, aligning SDG and climate adaptation efforts is inhibited by an inadequate understanding of the complex relationship between SDG targets and adaptation to impacts of climate change. Here we propose a framework to conceptualise how ecosystems and socio-economic sectors mediate this relationship, which provides a more nuanced understanding of the impacts of climate change on all 169 SDG targets. Global application of the framework reveals that adaptation of wetlands, rivers, cropland, construction, water, electricity, and housing in the most vulnerable countries is required to safeguard achievement of 68% of SDG targets from near-term climate risk by 2030. We discuss how our framework can help align National Adaptation Plans with SDG targets, thus ensuring that adaptation advances, rather than detracts from, sustainable development.
   Without targeted climate adaptation, impacts of climate change threaten achievement of all 169 SDG targets. Fuldauer et al. provide an actionable framework to assess these impacts and help systematically align national adaptation plans with the SDGs.
UT WOS:000815263200023
ER

PT J
AU Temiz, M
   Dincer, I
AF Temiz, Mert
   Dincer, Ibrahim
TI Enhancement of solar energy use by an integrated system for five useful
   outputs: System assessment
DE Solar energy; Geothermal power; Combined cycle; Concentrated solar
   power; Thermochemical cycle; Hydrogen; Multigeneration; Efficiency
AB In this paper, we present a newly developed integrated solar energy based system with a supercritical geothermal, a Brayton cycle gas turbine power plant with heat recovery system, and a thermochemical copper chlorine (Cu-C1) hydrogen production cycle. The integrated system is capable of producing multiple useful outputs. Solar and geothermal energy sources are utilized with a Brayton cycle with heat recovery system to produce hydrogen, heat, domestic hot water, electricity, and fresh water. Hydrogen is considered to be produced at industrial scale for commercial purposes. Other useful commodities are considered to be utilized for applications in the community which is located in Larderello, Italy. A supercritical geothermal system, a Braytoncycle gas turbine power plant with heat recovery, a parabolic trough concentrated solar power (CSP) plant, a multieffect desalination (MED) unit, a residential heat pump, and a thermochemical Cu-Cl hydrogen production plant are designed, developed, and investigated. Subsystems and the overall system are simulated for the selected location with various software packages. Energy and exergy approaches are applied to thermodynamically analyze the components, subsystems, and the overall system. The parametric studies are carried out to understand the effects of various parameters on the overall system and its subsystem performances. The overall system is evaluated to operate at 52.6% energy and 47.1% exergy efficiencies for the average ambient conditions for Larderello in Italy.
UT WOS:000619107300006
ER

PT C
AU Wu, HX
   Zhao, JY
   Qi, XL
   Ou, YG
   Liu, LQ
   Zhu, DS
AF Wu, Hong-xia
   Zhao, Jian-yun
   Qi, Xiao-ling
   Ou, Yu-guang
   Liu, Li-qian
   Zhu, Dong-sheng
BE Zhao, GM
TI The Application Research of Thermoelectric Generation Technology in Gas
   Water Heater
DE thermoelectric material; Thermoelectric technology; Waste heat recovery;
   Gas-fired water heater
AB Thermoelectric material is a kind of material which can convert thermal energy into electric energy directly. In this paper, thermoelectric generation system which was made of Bi2Te3-based material was installed in the gas water heater in order to explore the utilization of thermoelectric technology on the waste heat recovery of gas water heater. The system installed location was determined using the infrared thermal image instrument. The relation between the output power and water flow and the relation between the output power and gas pressure were discussed. The experimental results show that the output power decreases with the increasing of the rate of water and increases with the increasing of gas pressure. Moreover, the series connection of thermoelectric modules precedes to the parallel connection.
UT WOS:000289704101064
ER

PT J
AU Coar, M
   Sarreshtehdari, A
   Garlock, M
   Khorasani, NE
AF Coar, Maxwell
   Sarreshtehdari, Amir
   Garlock, Maria
   Elhami Khorasani, Negar
TI Methodology and challenges of fire following earthquake analysis: an
   urban community study considering water and transportation networks
DE Fire following earthquake; Cascading hazards; Resilience; Seismic; Water
   distribution network; Transportation network
ID IGNITION VULNERABILITY; SIMULATION-MODEL; POSTEARTHQUAKE; DEBRIS
AB The Pacific Northwest faces the looming threat of a massive 9.0 earthquake coming from the Cascadia Subduction Zone of the Juan de Fuca plate off the coast of Northern California, Oregon, Washington, and British Columbia. City officials, emergency managers, and researchers are preparing for this event by examining not only the earthquake itself, but also the cascading hazards that will follow it, such as fire and tsunami. Additionally, they must measure the effects of these hazards not just on the infrastructure systems they affect (e.g., water, power, transportation, communication, emergency services, etc.) but also how each system is affected by the failure of one or more of the others, or its "dependency." The following paper discusses the effects of two cascading hazards-earthquake and fire-and the vulnerability of three infrastructure systems-building stock, water, and transportation-with a special focus on the needs of firefighters and other emergency services in the 12 h following a major seismic event. It then frames these methodologies in the context of a fine-grain case study of Seattle downtown and identifies three critical zones where mitigation measures would provide the most benefit. The discussion includes challenges in approaching such studies-the largest being available data, the uncertainties in making these evaluations, and general best practices for increased resilience in urban communities similar to the case study.
UT WOS:000686463200004
ER

PT J
AU Aristondo, O
   Onaindia, E
AF Aristondo, Oihana
   Onaindia, Eneritz
TI Counting energy poverty in Spain between 2004 and 2015
DE Counting; Multidimensional poverty; Energy poverty
ID FUEL POVERTY; SOCIAL EXCLUSION; EUROPEAN-UNION; HOUSEHOLDS; DEPRIVATION
AB In this paper, energy poverty is measured in Spain between 2004 and 2015. It has been analyzed globally for Spain and we have also decomposed and analyzed energy poverty for two different groups: three different types of areas, depending on their population share, and regions. The variables used to measure energy poverty are the three energy accessibility indicators: the ability to keep the home adequately warm, the arrears on utility bills (electricity, water, gas) and the presence of a leaking roof, damp walls or rotten windows. Energy poverty is measured using Chakravarty and D'Ambrosio counting poverty measures. These indices have been chosen since they are able to capture inequality, and in our opinion they are the most appropriate poverty indices when multidimensional poverty needs to be measured for dichotomous variables. In addition, counting dominance curves have been computed in order to give more robustness to the obtained results. Results suggest that energy poverty in Spain worsened between 2004 and 2015. Specifically, rural areas and Southern regions show the highest energy poverty values.
UT WOS:000423009500041
ER

PT J
AU Kuznetsova, E
   Louhichi, R
   Zio, E
   Farel, R
AF Kuznetsova, Elizaveta
   Louhichi, Rim
   Zio, Enrico
   Farel, Romain
TI Input-output Inoperability Model for the risk analysis of eco-industrial
   parks
DE Critical infrastructure; Eco-industrial park; Industrial symbiosis;
   Risk; Resilience; Input-output inoperability model; Impact analysis;
   Influence analysis
ID CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURES; VULNERABILITY; SYMBIOSIS; SYSTEMS; SECTORS
AB An Eco-Industrial Park (EIP) is formed by a set of manufacturing and service businesses located together in a bounded geographic area and interconnected in Industrial Symbiosis (IS), aiming at enhancing environmental, economic and social performances of the EIP itself and its individual Industrial Actors (IA). Connections of IA to Critical Infrastructures (CI), such as for electricity and water supply, together with the newly created IS interconnections make EIP vulnerable to disruptive events propagation, whereby a failure in a CI outside EIP may propagate to EIP and its IA in a cascading effect. The interdependencies created by the interconnections of various CI and IS in the EIP should be closely investigated in order to predict the behaviour of the interconnected EIP, to evaluate the risk of disruptive events propagation and propose mitigation solutions. Different approaches exists, for this, requiring different levels of details, model sophistication and complexity, data for parameters estimation. The present paper focuses on the expert-based Input-output Inoperability Model (IIM) and proposes a methodology for its complete deployment on the existing EIP of Kalundborg. The results obtained from the application to this EIP can be used to provide guidance for establishing measures of resilience to disruptive events, in terms of possible technological solutions and adjustment strategies to increase overall EIP resilience. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000409290700073
ER

PT C
AU Ahmed, A
   Iqbal, A
   Khan, I
   Al-Wahedi, A
   Mehrjerdi, H
   Rahman, S
AF Ahmed, Abdellahi
   Iqbal, Atif
   Khan, Irfan
   Al-Wahedi, Abdulla
   Mehrjerdi, Hasan
   Rahman, Syed
GP IEEE
TI Impact of EV charging Station Penetration on Harmonic Distortion Level
   in Utility Distribution Network: A Case Study of Qatar
DE EV Charging Station; QEWC; Power system; EV Battery; Matlab; Simulink
AB The penetration of electric vehicles (EV) into the public distribution grid can create various technical issues related to the services' power quality and reliability. These impacts range from thermal limits violation of system components, harmonic distortion to the increase in demand, particularly during peak time. Total Harmonic Distortion (THD) is considered one of the leading causes of equipment failure due to the voltage waveform's distortion. In this paper, the public distribution network has been examined in terms of harmonic distortion percentage increase due to EV charging station penetration. The voltage profile is examined as the EV load increases to determine buses' capacity at certain THD levels. MATLAB/Simulink is utilized to obtain results where the THD from both medium and low voltage sides have been compared for a case of distribution network branch of Qatar Electricity & Water Company (QEWC).
UT WOS:000672823300063
ER

PT J
AU Liu, B
   Liu, ZM
   Jiang, CC
   Wei, JL
   Chen, SY
   Pan, JJ
   Liu, S
   Hu, CD
   Xie, YL
AF Liu, Bo
   Liu, Zhimin
   Jiang, Caichao
   Wei, Jianglong
   Chen, Shiyong
   Pan, Junjun
   Liu, Sheng
   Hu, Chundong
   Xie, Yuanlai
TI Insulation design of-800 kV gas insulation transmission line for
   negative ion based neutral beam injector
DE Neutral beam injector; GIL; Insulation; HVDC; Simulation
AB The high-voltage transmission line carries electricity, water, and gas for the high-potential components in the NNBI system. High voltage transmission lines used in-800 kV acceleration grade NNBI systems require the transmission of multiple high voltages of different voltage levels. Its insulation design not only guarantees the reliability of insulation but also requires a small occupation volume. The FEA method is used for insulation design of multi-conductor transmission lines. In the design of-800 kV transmission line, coaxial and non-coaxial structures are mainly considered. In the case of SF6 filling space, conductor radius and conductor position are the main factors affecting insulation strength. Both structures can make its insulation strength meet the requirements. However, it is found that the coaxial transmission line is more compact and concise when it meets the insulation requirements, but it is difficult to install and maintain.
UT WOS:001096949900001
ER

PT J
AU Kiehbadroudinezhad, M
   Merabet, A
   Al-Durra, A
   Hosseinzadeh-Bandbafha, H
   Wright, MM
   El-Saadany, E
AF Kiehbadroudinezhad, Mohammadali
   Merabet, Adel
   Al-Durra, Ahmed
   Hosseinzadeh-Bandbafha, Homa
   Wright, Mark Mba
   El-Saadany, Ehab
TI Towards a sustainable environment and carbon neutrality: Optimal sizing
   of standalone, green, reliable, and affordable water-power cogeneration
   systems
DE Sustainability; Clean power-water cogeneration; Life cycle assessment;
   Cumulative energy demand; Environmental assessment; Optimization
ID REVERSE-OSMOSIS DESALINATION; RENEWABLE ENERGY-SYSTEMS; BEE SWARM
   OPTIMIZATION; HYDROGEN FUEL-CELL; OPTIMAL-DESIGN;
   ELECTRICITY-GENERATION; HYBRID SYSTEM; WIND; BATTERY; MANAGEMENT
AB Today, the limited sources of freshwater supply are a significant concern. Exploiting alternative sources, espe-cially seawater, has been the focus, but purifying it is energy-intensive. Integrating desalination with renewable energy is a proposed solution, but it comes with high costs and environmental risks during construction. Hence, this study presents a framework to enhance the modeling, optimization, and evaluation of green water-power cogeneration systems to achieve the sustainability goals of cities and societies. An improved division algo-rithm (DA) determines the optimal component sizes based on criteria like minimal energy demand, reduced environmental and resource damage, low total life cycle cost (TLCC), and high reliability. Optimization considers varying loss of power supply probability (LPSP) levels (0 %, 2 %, 5 %, and 10 %). The environmental assessment utilizes a life cycle assessment (LCA) approach with IMPACT 2002+ and cumulative energy demand (CED) calculations. The study models the green cogeneration systems based on weather conditions, water demand, and power requirements of Al Lulu Island, Abu Dhabi, UAE. The system comprises photovoltaic panels, wind tur-bines, tidal generators, and backup systems (fuel cells). Results reveal that TLCC ranges from $186,263 to $486,876 for the highest LPSP. The solar-tidal-based configuration offers the lowest TLCC ($186,263) while substituting solar with wind energy increases TLCC by 160 %. The wind-tidal-based configuration has the lowest specific environmental impact (1020 mPt/yr) and cumulative energy demand (39.06 GJ/yr) for the highest LPSP. In contrast, the solar-tidal-wind-based configuration inflicts the most damage, with 62.63 GJ/yr and 1794 mPt/ yr for the highest LPSP. The finding indicates that the DA is faster (100 iterations) than the genetic algorithm (1000 iterations), particle swarm optimization (400 iterations), and artificial bee swarm optimization (300 it-erations). The study underscores the solar-tidal-based configuration as the optimal choice across multiple criteria, offering a promising solution for freshwater supply and environmental sustainability on Al Lulu Island.
UT WOS:001128039100001
ER

PT J
AU Wang, F
   Magoua, JJ
   Li, N
   Fang, DP
AF Wang, Fei
   Magoua, Joseph Jonathan
   Li, Nan
   Fang, Dongping
TI Assessing the impact of systemic heterogeneity on failure propagation
   across interdependent critical infrastructure systems
DE Interdependent critical infrastructure systems; Failure propagation;
   Systemic heterogeneity; Disaster impact; Earthquake disaster; Power and
   water supply systems
ID VULNERABILITY ANALYSIS; EXTREME EVENTS; NETWORKS; POWER; MODEL;
   RESILIENCE; EARTHQUAKE; SIMULATION; CASCADE
AB The systemic heterogeneity between different critical infrastructure systems (CISs) can significantly influence the failure propagation process across the systems. For instance, when power supply systems are affected by an earthquake, physical damages mainly occur at nodes and seldom occur at links, since the cables are flexible enough to withstand the impacts. Water supply systems on the other hand are prone to experience physical damages at both nodes and links. However, despite the increasing volume of literature that examines failure propagation risks across interdependent CISs, only few studies have accounted for various systemic heterogeneity factors (HFs) and their potential impact on cascading failures. The aim of this study is to reveal and quantify the significance of such impact, for which a four-step approach is introduced. A case study was conducted, which examined the impact of three HFs on failure propagation across two interdependent power and water supply systems in the event of a simulated earthquake. Seven improved models were developed and their respective simulation results were compared. The comparison of simulation results from the baseline model and improved models revealed that the impact of the simulated earthquake disaster on CISs would be significantly misestimated if the HFs were not considered, and that each HF impacted the failure propagation in a different way. The proposed approach and the findings in the case study are expected to uncover the drawbacks in current CISs failure propagation models, and provide a foundation for the development of more reliable failure propagation modeling approaches in future research.
UT WOS:000599652000001
ER

PT J
AU Hui, JW
AF Hui, Jiuwu
TI Fractional-order sliding mode coordinated controller using
   super-twisting disturbance observer for an NSSS with predefined-time
   stability
DE Pressurized-water reactor; Nuclear steam supply system; Super-twisting
   disturbance observer; Fractional-order sliding mode coordinated;
   control; Predefined-time stability
ID NUCLEAR-ENERGY; DESIGN
AB This paper develops a fractional-order sliding mode coordinated control (FOSMCC) strategy incorporating dual super-twisting disturbance observers (STDOs) to enhance the control performance, stability, and reliability of the nuclear steam supply system (NSSS) under complex, time-varying operating conditions and compound disturbances. The FOSMCC strategy synthesizes the fractional-order control and predefined-time theory with sliding mode control, augmented by the disturbance feedforward compensation loop driven by dual STDOs. Such control framework provides enhanced control performance guarantees, including fast transient response, high steadystate precision, and reinforced disturbance rejection. Furthermore, by employing Lyapunov's direct approach, it is theoretically demonstrated that the entire NSSS, under the developed coordinated strategy, achieves superior predefined-time stability. Finally, comprehensive numerical validation and comparative studies reveal that the developed FOSMCC strategy with STDOs significantly outperforms both the latest fractional-order fixed-time sliding mode controller (FOFTSMC) and the practically adopted coordinated controller (PACC), exhibiting better transient/steady-state control response and stronger robustness against disturbances. Simulation results validate that, in the presence of compound disturbances, the proposed FOSMCC strategy reduces the integral absolute control error of nuclear power and water level by 89.37 % and 87.67 %, respectively, compared to FOFTSMC, and by 99.97 % and 99.99 %, respectively, compared to PACC.
UT WOS:001568241500001
ER

PT J
AU Li, N
   Wang, F
   Magoua, JJ
   Fang, DP
AF Li, Nan
   Wang, Fei
   Magoua, Joseph Jonathan
   Fang, Dongping
TI Interdependent effects of critical infrastructure systems under
   different types of disruptions
DE Critical infrastructure system; Interdependency; Co-simulation; Random
   disruption; Intentional disruption; Interdependent effect
ID VULNERABILITY ANALYSIS; BAYESIAN NETWORKS; EXTREME EVENTS; RESILIENCE;
   POWER; FRAMEWORK; FAILURE; OPTIMIZATION; EARTHQUAKE; SIMULATION
AB Modern critical infrastructure systems (CISs) are becoming increasingly dependent on each other for proper operation, which also exposes the systems to higher risks of cascading failures. Prior research has attempted to quantify the interdependent effect (IE) of CISs under random or intentional disruptions. However, those efforts are limited with respect to both the methodological approaches for simulating intentional disruptions and CISs failure propagation, and the granularity and quantification method of the simulated disruption impacts. To address these limitations, this study proposes a new framework for analyzing the IE of CISs. The framework first models interdependent CISs with a high level architecture (HLA)-based simulation approach that integrates existing knowledge, data, and models specific to each infrastructure domain. It then co-simulates the failure propagation through interdependent CISs under three different types of disruptions, namely random, topology-based and flow-based disruptions. Based on the simulation outputs, the framework quantifies the IE by comparing the disruption-induced system performance losses, which are measured with three different performance metrics, under both interdependent and independent conditions. A case study of two interdependent water and power supply systems was conducted to demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed framework. The case study results revealed a few new insights into the vulnerability of interdependent CISs under different disruption scenarios, which have important implications for the risk assessment and resilience management of interdependent CISs in practice.
UT WOS:000863105600008
ER

PT J
AU Emamdoost, N
   Jafarian, A
   Kouhikamali, R
AF Emamdoost, Nazila
   Jafarian, Ali
   Kouhikamali, Ramin
TI Implementing multiple-effect distillation and reverse osmosis thermal
   coupling to improve desalination process performance in combined water
   and power plants
DE Cogeneration; Multiple-effect distillation; Reverse osmosis; Thermal
   coupling method; Pay-back period
ID MULTIEFFECT DISTILLATION; VAPOR COMPRESSION; SEAWATER DESALINATION;
   COGENERATION SYSTEMS; HEAT UTILIZATION; DESIGN; CHP; OPTIMIZATION;
   ENERGY; TECHNOLOGIES
AB Cogeneration has recently been an appropriate engineering approach to supply increasing energy demands. The present study demonstrates a significant influence on increase in productivity and reduction of utility consumption of thermal desalination, considering a novel internally coupled multiple-effect distillation and reverse osmosis desalination process in a cogeneration of water and power plant. The proposed power generation unit, consisting of two SGT600 gas turbines as prime movers, two heat recovery steam generators and one back-pressure steam turbine, has been applied. The objective is to propose a modified multiple-effect distillation process, due to availability of sufficient cooling water, provided by reverse osmosis reject water. The basic configuration comprises a hybrid desalination using a dual purpose condenser, results of which showed a 45% reduction in electrical energy consumption of multiple-effect distillation, accompanying a 67% decrease in intake water cost. In modified configuration, condenser temperature decreases from 48 to 45celcius, allowing number of effects to increase from 5 to 7. Therefore, produced water rate and gain output ratio of the modified multiple effect distillation increase by 30% and 31%, respectively, while specific energy consumption decreases by 6%, causing a two-year reduction in cogeneration of water and power plant pay-back period compared to the basic configuration.
UT WOS:000572861700004
ER

PT J
AU Loggins, RA
   Wallace, WA
AF Loggins, Ryan A.
   Wallace, William A.
TI Rapid Assessment of Hurricane Damage and Disruption to Interdependent
   Civil Infrastructure Systems
DE Data analysis; Network analysis; Infrastructure; Disaster recovery;
   Decision support systems
ID FAILURE; CONSEQUENCES; TRENDS
AB Civil infrastructure systems such as power, water, and communications are critical for the well-being and functioning of citizens, industries, and organizations both under normal and disaster conditions. Infrastructure systems cannot be seen as independent entities because they rely a great deal on each other for services needed for operation. Damage to one system can have cascading effects throughout that system, and throughout all of the systems that rely on it. To obtain a meaningful prediction of disruption, these interdependencies among the systems must be considered. This paper presents two models to predict and analyze the effect that a hurricane can have on the performance of interdependent infrastructure systems. The first model uses a Monte Carlo simulation and statistical methods to predict the damage caused by a hurricane on the systems being considered. The second model applies optimization techniques to determine the cascading effects that the damage has throughout the infrastructure systems considered. A case study was conducted using an artificial interdependent infrastructure data set called "Clarc" County. Examples from this case study show that there is a benefit in considering interdependencies among infrastructure systems when predicting disruptions. In addition, the effect of these interdependencies can be assessed in time to support decision making for restoration of services either during an event or as a training exercise. (C) 2015 American Society of Civil Engineers.
UT WOS:000365130200004
ER

PT J
AU Spannring, M
   Hengl, M
   Michor, K
   Schaufler, R
   Zinsser, T
AF Spannring, Michael
   Hengl, Michael
   Michor, Klaus
   Schaufler, Reinhard
   Zinsser, Tilmann
TI Water Power and/or Nature Conservation? - Analysis of Options for the
   Rehabilitation of the Lower Salzach River
AB For a river reach of the Lower Salzach River at the border between Germany and Austria an option analysis for a rehabilitation is currently being conducted concerning water engineering as well as freshwater-ecological measures. In addition to three options including only river engineering components, two further alternatives also offer an energy recovery model. In order to evaluate the different options, their impact is analysed in reference to clearly defined criteria. The findings will provide the basis for a decision for one alternative.
UT WOS:000322785100010
ER

PT J
AU Yao, WW
   Chen, YS
AF Yao Weiwei
   Chen Yuansheng
TI Assessing three fish species ecological status in Colorado River, Grand
   Canyon based on physical habitat and population models
DE Habitat and population model; Colorado River; Rainbow trout
   (Oncorhynchus mykiss); Brown trout (Salmo trutta); Flannelmouth sucker
   (Catostomus latipinnis); Fish restoration plan
ID TROUT ONCORHYNCHUS-MYKISS; AGE-0 RAINBOW-TROUT; FLANNELMOUTH SUCKER;
   SEDIMENT TRANSPORT; REGULATED RIVER; BROWN TROUT; CATOSTOMUS-LATIPINNIS;
   ATLANTIC SALMON; LEES FERRY; FLOW
AB Colorado River is a unique ecosystem and provides important ecological services such as habitat for fish species as well as water power energy supplies. River management for this ecosystem requires assessment and decision support tools for fish which involves protecting, restoring as well as forecasting of future conditions. In this paper, a habitat and population model was developed and used to determine the levels of fish habitat suitability and population density in Colorado River between Lees Ferry and Lake Mead. The short term target fish populations are also predicted based on native fish recovery strategy. This model has been developed by combining hydrodynamics, heat transfer and sediment transport models with a habitat suitability index model and then coupling with habitat model into life stage population model. The fish were divided into four life stages according to the fish length. Three most abundant and typical native and non-native fish were selected as target species, which are rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mylciss), brown trout (Salmo trutta) and flannelmouth sucker (Catostomus latipinnis). Flow velocity, water depth, water temperature and substrates were used as the suitability indicators in habitat model and overall suitability index (OSI) as well as weight usable area (WUA) was used as an indicator in population model. A comparison was made between simulated fish population alteration and surveyed fish number fluctuation during 2000 to 2009. The application of this habitat and population model indicates that this model can be accurate present habitat situation and targets fish population dynamics of in the study areas. The analysis also indicates the flannelmouth sucker population will steadily increase while the rainbow trout will decrease based on the native fish recovery scheme.
UT WOS:000430034700008
ER

PT C
AU Helder, CSFF
   Dester, PS
   Stancanelli, EMG
   Cardieri, P
AF Helder, F. C. S. F.
   Dester, P. S.
   Stancanelli, E. M. G.
   Cardieri, P.
GP IEEE
TI Feasibility of Alarm Events upon Smart Metering in LoRa Networks
DE IoT; AMI; LoRa; LPWAN; Smart Cities; Smart Metering
AB Internet of Things (IoT) is pushing the Internet to the next level, bringing the number of connected devices to an unprecedented amount, creating new services and improving old services like the metering system. The advanced meter infrastructure (AMI) measures, collects and analyzes the distribution and consumption of utilities such as water, electricity, and gas, which are of vital importance for the implementation of smart cities. In this paper, we employ LoRa, which is a low power wide area network technology (LPWAN), for the communication of meter devices and network server, and we study the coexistence of two kinds of messages: regular and alarm events. Our focus is on the analysis of the alarm events, which can be characterized by emergency situations and require ultra-reliability. We investigated the feasibility of the alarms for a smart metering scenario through simulation campaigns and a mathematical model. By assigning a different spreading factor (SF) to the device depending on whether the event is regular or alarm, we assessed the system performance. We evaluate the availability, reliability, and quantity of alarms that satisfy the restricted requirements of alarms events and do not compromise the performance of regular events. The best performance for regular events at SF-7 was obtained when alarm events are allocated to SF-8, whereas the other combinations are affected for a stronger interference.
UT WOS:000591678700092
ER

PT C
AU Klumel, G
   Gridish, Y
   Szafranek, I
   Karni, Y
AF Klumel, G
   Gridish, Y
   Szafranek, I
   Karni, Y
BE Zediker, MS
TI Reliable high power diode lasers: thermo-mechanical fatigue aspects
DE diode laser; repetitive cw operation; solders; fatigue; reliability
ID BARS; RELIABILITY
AB High power water-cooled diode lasers are finding increasing demand in biomedical, cosmetic and industrial applications, where repetitive cw (continuous wave) and pulsed cw operation modes are required. When operating in such modes, the lasers experience numerous complete thermal cycles between "cold" heat sink temperature and the "hot" temperature typical of thermally equilibrated cw operation. It is clearly demonstrated that the main failure mechanism directly linked to repetitive cw operation is thermo-mechanical fatigue of the solder joints adjacent to the laser bars, especially when "soft" solders are used. Analyses of the bonding interfaces were carried out using scanning electron microscopy. It was observed that intermetallic compounds, formed already during the bonding process, lead to the solders fatigue both on the p- and n-side of the laser bar. Fatigue failure of solder joints in repetitive cw operation reduces useful lifetime of the stacks to hundreds hours, in comparison with more than 10,000 hours lifetime typically demonstrated in commonly adopted non-stop cw reliability testing programs. It is shown, that proper selection of package materials and solders, careful design of fatigue sensitive parts and bum-in screening in the bard pulse operation mode allow considerable increase of lifetime and reliability, without compromising the device efficiency, optical power density and compactness.
UT WOS:000236976000002
ER

PT C
AU Chang, JH
   Lee, HH
AF Chang, Jeong-Ho
   Lee, Heung-Ho
BE Hegeler, F
TI A Study on Reliability Based Assessment for High Voltage Induction
   Stator Windings
DE Motor windings; Diagnosis; Reliability assessment; Risk based
   maintenance
AB Currently high voltage induction motors are widely used and play a significant role in many fields including water power plants. Though reliable, the power equipment has been known to have several maintenance problems. These equipment problems often result in an excessive maintenance cost per fiscal year, which has been derived either from a traditional time-based maintenance schedule or a non-scientific asset management of equipment repair/replacement. In order to reduce the financial burden of equipment replacement, it is imperative to develop a sound evaluation method of the reliability of the power motors either by accurately predicting the rate of fault occurrence or by standardizing the diagnosis of the high voltage induction motors. The purpose of this paper was to develop a standard evaluation algorithm for the condition of the stator windings of high voltage induction motors. Several technical tests were utilized in this study including the measurements of AC current (Delta I), dissipation factor (tan delta), partial discharge (PD) magnitude, and polarization index (P.I.). The AC current test produced additional information on the insulation strength of the stator winding of water supply pump motor in operation. The suggested algorithm based on the Risk-Based Maintenance method could make a significant contribution to the reliability assessment.
UT WOS:000322131200150
ER

PT J
AU Al-Marnun, A
   Baawain, MS
   Dhar, BR
   Kim, IS
AF Al-Marnun, Abdullah
   Baawain, Mahad Said
   Dhar, Bipro Ranjan
   Kim, In S.
TI Improved recovery of bioenergy and osmotic water in an osmotic microbial
   fuel cell using micro-diffuser assisted marine aerobic biofilm on
   cathode
DE Microbial fuel cell; Bioreactors; Osmosis; Wastewater treatment;
   Biofilms; Biocatalysis
ID OSMOSIS MEMBRANE BIOREACTOR; DOMESTIC WASTE-WATER;
   ELECTRICITY-GENERATION; FLUX BEHAVIOR; DESALINATION; ENERGY;
   DENITRIFICATION; OPTIMIZATION; TECHNOLOGY; SEAWATER
AB The research work demonstrated the performance of an integrated MFC capable of recovering osmotic water and electricity using forward osmosis in a double-chambered baffled channel reactor. The potential of applying electrochemically active (EA) aerobic marine biofilms on the cathode electrode was explored by eliminating the costly Pt-catalyst, thus making the system more eco-friendly and sustainable. The biocathode osmotic microbial fuel cell (OsMFC) used in this study was operated by two different conditions of oxygen supplied into the marine EA biofilms (i.e., the conventional oxygen supply by perforated pipes, and the enhanced oxygen supply by micro-pore air diffuser). The system recovered a maximum electrical power, 28.90 W m(-3) net cathodic compartments (NCC), while removing 63 +/- 8% of COD from raw domestic wastewater. The rate of osmotic water recovery was 1.46 +/- 0.04 L m(-2) h(-1). The amount of recovered osmotic water showed a great potential for integrating osmosis into the marine bio-cathode OsMFC. The dominating bacterial communities identified in the cathodic biofilms were mainly gamma-Proteobacteria and alpha-Proteobacteria. Crown Copyright (C) 2017 Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000417008900027
ER

PT J
AU Oikonomou, K
   Mongird, K
   Rice, JS
   Homer, JS
AF Oikonomou, Konstantinos
   Mongird, Kendall
   Rice, Jennie S.
   Homer, Juliet S.
TI Resilience of Interdependent Water and Power Systems: A Literature
   Review and Conceptual Modeling Framework
DE integrated water and power resilience; resilience metrics; modeling
   tools; resilience framework; visualization prototype
ID INFRASTRUCTURE; SUSTAINABILITY; FUTURE
AB As increasing pressures of population growth and climate change arise, water and power systems (WPS) are becoming increasingly interdependent. This interdependency has resulted in an increased potential for cascading failures, whereby the service interruption of one system can propagate to interdependent ones. This paper makes four contributions. First, we present an extensive literature review in the field of integrated water and power resilience, leveraging both institutional and technical literature research landscapes. We compare various modeling approaches used to model interdependent WPS and discuss the different metrics and definitions that are typically employed to quantify and define resilience. Relevant challenges and gaps related to modeling tools and metrics are also discussed, and appropriate recommendations are made. Second, the paper presents a visualization prototype for interdependent WPS to showcase water and power system interdependencies and reveal co-managed resilience strategies that can be used to improve resilience under different types of common threats. Third, we provide a conceptual decision support framework that simultaneously optimizes a portfolio of co-managed resilience strategies in the face of multiple, uncertain threats and addresses WPS interdependencies. Finally, we present future trends regarding digitalization, integrated planning, collaborative governance, and equity needs for building more resilient WPS.
UT WOS:000726424700001
ER

PT J
AU van der Hoek, JP
   Tenorio, JLI
   Hellinga, C
   van Lier, JB
   van Wijk, AJM
AF van der Hoek, J. P.
   Tenorio, J. L. Izar
   Hellinga, C.
   van Lier, J. B.
   van Wijk, A. J. M.
TI Green Village Delft - integration of an autarkic water supply in a local
   sustainable energy system
DE blackwater; drinking water; energy recovery; greywater; wastewater;
   water reuse
ID HARVESTING SYSTEM; GREYWATER; OPTIONS; SEWAGE; DESIGN; REUSE; CYCLE;
   RAIN
AB For the Green Village at the campus of Delft University of Technology, an autarkic water circuit was developed. The aim was to avoid connections to the public water supply system, the sewerage, the electricity grid and cable systems. It should produce its own drinking water and electricity, and clean its organic waste streams in a sustainable way. Due to the strict Dutch drinking water regulations, only one water quality will be supplied: drinking water. Drinking water will be produced from greywater (53%) supplemented with rainwater (47%). In the treatment scheme, the multiple barrier approach will be used to comply with the Dutch drinking water quality standards. For greywater treatment, a triple barrier is suggested: ozonation - ultrafiltration - UV disinfection. For rainwater treatment a dual barrier is suggested: ultrafiltration - UV disinfection. By separating wastewater streams at the point of origin into greywater and blackwater, and by replacing conventional toilets with low water consumption vacuum systems as part of the water conservation measures, it will be possible to collect a concentrated blackwater stream suitable for recovery energy. For this purpose the upflow anaerobic sludge blanket reactor is suggested. The proposed water circuit results in an autarkic water management, but not in an autarkic energy management.
UT WOS:000345426800003
ER

PT J
AU Colleoni, L
   Sindoni, A
   Ravelli, S
AF Colleoni, Lorenzo
   Sindoni, Alessio
   Ravelli, Silvia
TI Comprehensive Thermodynamic Evaluation of the Natural Gas-Fired Allam
   Cycle at Full Load
DE Allam cycle; decarbonization; thermodynamic modeling; net electric
   efficiency
ID HIGH-EFFICIENCY
AB In this study, thermodynamic modeling and simulations were used to optimize the design point performance of the Allam cycle. The topic fits perfectly with the strategies for power sector decarbonization toward net zero emission. In fact, it offers an environmentally friendlier alternative to natural gas combined cycle (NGCC) plants. The focus is on oxyfuel combustion that, combined with supercritical CO2 (sCO(2)) stream as working fluid, produces high-purity CO2, electricity, and water by means of a highly recuperated Brayton cycle. The former is ready for sequestration, pipeline injection, or other applications, such as enhanced oil recovery or industrial processes. Being designed within the last decade, large-scale plants are poorly documented in the published literature and not yet ready for operation. Accordingly, a thermodynamic model was developed for a net power (P-n) output of 300 MW. After validation against the little data available from academic studies, simulation sets were conceived to assess the impact of main process parameters on cycle efficiency. To that end, operating conditions of the compressor, turbine, and air separation unit (ASU) were varied in a parametric analysis, preparatory to performance optimization. For the chosen layout, the maximum net electric efficiency (eta(el,n)) was found to be 50.4%, without thermal recovery from ASU.
UT WOS:000956433900001
ER

PT J
AU Alghorayshi, STK
   Imandoust, M
   Hemmatzadeh, A
   Abbasi, S
   Javidfar, M
   Seifollahi, M
   Gitifar, S
   Zahedi, R
AF Alghorayshi, Seyed Taher Kermani
   Imandoust, Milad
   Hemmatzadeh, Amirhossein
   Abbasi, Solmaz
   Javidfar, Meysam
   Seifollahi, Mehran
   Gitifar, Siavash
   Zahedi, Rahim
TI Design, simulation and investigation of the tri-generation process of
   fresh water, power and biogas using solar thermal energy and sewage
   sludge
DE Tri-generation; Power plant; Renewable energy; Steam gasification; MED
   desalination; Solar PTC
ID PARABOLIC-TROUGH; EXERGY ANALYSIS; MED-TVC; SYSTEM; PERFORMANCE; PLANT;
   DESALINATION; HYDROGEN; COGENERATION; WASTE
AB To address the high demand for energy and fresh water, the effect of global warming and pollution generated by fossil fuels consumption needs to be minimized and replaced with alternative renewable energy. Hybrid renewable energy systems using solar energy and biomass will become more crucial. In this study a new design for continuous production process of power, biogas and fresh water is proposed. The challenge of the present research is to use different sources for energy production from renewable resources simultaneously including solar and biomass to produce power, fuel and fresh water, using 4-stage Multi Effect Distillation (MED) for desalination of seawater. To cope with constant and stable energy production required for renewable solar power plants at night, due to lack of sunlight, co-consumption of hybrid solar and biomass feedstocks is considered in this paper. The associated challenge is discussed by the assessments of Solar Heat transfer fluid (SHTF), Sewage sludge flowrates, biogas production, output waste stream of gasification reactor, power and fresh water production using ASPEN Plus software. The sensitivity analysis was performed to demonstrate the viability of the designed process and the resulting products. The gasification process produced 76.8586 tonh syngas (CO and H2). Also, 34.547 MW of power with about 783 m3h of fresh water were produced with the overall exergy efficiency of 35.51 %, 52.260 MW exergy destruction and desalination efficiency of 52 %. Only 25 MW of solar power were necessary due to proper energy recovery throughout the entire process. The productivity of fresh water production was 50 %. 38908 m2 of Parabolic trough collector (PTC) was needed to supply required solar energy during day light hours. It was revealed that the hybridization of solar & biomass energy resources for producing power, fresh water, and biogas could be a sustainable approach to cope with the increasing demand for fresh water, electricity, and fuel.
UT WOS:001267384200001
ER

PT J
AU Asadi, M
   Deymi-Dashtebayaz, M
   Alavi, S
AF Asadi, Mostafa
   Deymi-Dashtebayaz, Mahdi
   Alavi, Sayyedbenyamin
TI Emergy and eco-exergy analysis of different scenarios in waste heat
   recovery applications for electricity and fresh water generation
DE Waste heat recovery; Power regeneration; Emergy analysis; Organic
   Rankine cycle; Exergy economic analysis; Water desalination
ID ORGANIC RANKINE-CYCLE; EXISTING CHP SYSTEM; PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT;
   WORKING FLUID; SOLAR-ENERGY; POWER-PLANT; ORC; OPTIMIZATION; PARAMETERS;
   SUSTAINABILITY
AB The use of waste heat in thermal power plants for electricity generation and water treatment can effectively increase the overall efficiency of the power plant and reduce environmental pollution due to replacement with fossil fuels. In this paper, using steam Rankine cycle (SRC), organic Rankine cycle (ORC) and single-stage desalination unit are proposed in three scenarios to apply heat losses of Khangiran gas power plant for co-generation of electricity and water treatment. These three scenarios are investigated from the energy, eco-exergy, and emergy point of view, and four organic fluids are used in ORC to achieve the best results. The results indicated that among the four working fluids considered, n-Octane has the best performance. The results also showed that at an optimum temperature of 453.55 K, the best system in terms of energy and eco-exergy would be the Scenario 1. Moreover, the results of emergy analysis showed that the best system from this point of view is scenario 3. It is noteworthy that in the results corresponding to scenario no. 3, the emergy yield ratio (EYR) and emergy index of sustainability (ESI) are 4.89 and 182.5, respectively.
UT WOS:000752197200001
ER

PT J
AU Mitrani-Reiser, J
   Mahoney, M
   Holmes, WT
   de la Llera, JC
   Bissell, R
   Kirsch, T
AF Mitrani-Reiser, Judith
   Mahoney, Michael
   Holmes, William T.
   Carlos de la Llera, Juan
   Bissell, Rick
   Kirsch, Thomas
TI A Functional Loss Assessment of a Hospital System in the Bio-Bio
   Province
ID HEALTH; VULNERABILITY
AB The objectives of this study were to introduce a damage and loss-of-function survey tool that can be used to standardize future assessment of hospital performance, to assess the impact of the 2010 Chilean earthquake on the functions of the public hospital system in the Bio-Bio Province, and to translate these results as lessons that can be applied to U.S. hospitals. This study focused on damage to structural and nonstructural components, utility services, and equipment, as well as loss of supplies and personnel. Structural engineers completed a visual inspection of facilities, and hospital administrators were surveyed to assess the overall impact on operations. All hospitals lost communications, electrical power, and water for several days. All hospitals reported some physical damage although only one suffered significant structural damage. The lessons learned from Chile are applied to U.S. practice of hospital seismic mitigation. [DOI: 10.1193/1.4000044]
UT WOS:000308573000024
ER

PT J
AU Wang, XL
   Li, SX
   Bai, XG
   Gomez, JA
   Liu, TJ
   Liu, JD
AF Wang, Xiaolan
   Li, Sixiao
   Bai, Xiuguang
   Gomez, Jose A.
   Liu, Tianjun
   Liu, Jundi
TI Effect of government regulation on promotion of soil restoration
   practices among farmers in the Loess plateau: Unveiling the role of
   green ecological cognition
DE Agricultural sustainability; Behavioral economics; Cognitive moderation;
   Policy intervention; Probit modeling
ID SMALLHOLDER FARMERS; ADOPTION; CONSERVATION; AGRICULTURE; INCENTIVES;
   INTENTIONS; MOTIVATION; DECISIONS; BEHAVIOR; TILLAGE
AB Soil remediation practices by farmers are crucial for improving soil quality and ensuring stable agricultural production. To analyze the factors influencing these practices, we surveyed 403 farmers in the Loess Plateau of Shaanxi and Shanxi, China. Using an ordered Probit model and moderation effect analysis, we investigated the direct effects of government regulations-specifically subsidies and technical training and the moderating role of farmers' ecological cognition on technology adoption. Our findings indicate: (1) Farmers generally accept and implement soil remediation technologies, with deep plowing being the most prevalent; (2) Government regulations, particularly subsidies and training, significantly enhance farmers' soil restoration efforts; (3) Farmers' green ecological cognition positively influences their restoration practices and moderates the impact of government regulation; (4) The influence of government regulation and cognition varies among farmers types, with subsidies being more crucial for smallholder, while training benefits larger operations more. These insights offer a new perspective for refining soil remediation policies and examining the global applicability of government regulation and farmers' cognition. (c) 2025 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water & Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
UT WOS:001586813500001
ER

PT J
AU He, QL
   Li, BB
   Zhang, FB
   Shen, N
   Yang, MY
AF He, Qilin
   Li, Binbin
   Zhang, Fengbao
   Shen, Nan
   Yang, Mingyi
TI Runoff and Infiltration responses of revegetated slopes to clipping
   management on the northern Loess Plateau
DE Runoff; Infiltration; Grassland clipping management; SCS-CN model;
   Structural equation model; Variation partitioning
ID RAIN-USE EFFICIENCY; FACTOR LS-FACTOR; SOIL-EROSION; VEGETATION
   COVERAGE; SEDIMENT YIELD; SURFACE RUNOFF; STEEP SLOPES; INTENSITY;
   GRADIENT; RESTORATION
AB Large-scale vegetation restoration can reduce local watershed water yield, limit vegetation establishment and subsequent growth, and influence regional ecosystem functions. Clipping management by reducing aboveground parts of grassland was gradually recommended and adopted in Grain -for -Green project management to offset these additional issues. Thus, scientific evaluation of the effectiveness of clipping management on infiltration and runoff processes is necessary for maintaining the stability of the surface water system and the sustainability of vegetation restoration in semi -arid regions. A field simulated rainfall experiment was conducted with four managed clipping grasslands (mainly bunge needlegrass and Stipa grandis ), including no clipping, light clipping, heavy clipping, and complete clipping under three slope gradients (10, 20, and 30 degrees ) and three rainfall intensities (60, 90, and 120 mm/h) to explore the mechanism of runoff and infiltration responses to clipping using structural equation modeling and variation partitioning based on an SCS-CN model. The results showed the runoff coefficient of the light clipping, heavy clipping, and complete clipping plots were 1.33, 2.22, and 4.22 times that of the no clipping plot. The light clipping, heavy clipping, and complete clipping plots decreased the infiltration coefficients by 0%, 5%, and 26% relative to the no clipping plot. Rainfall intensity dominated runoff and infiltration amounts, and clipping intensity's total effect was stronger than slope gradient. Clipping intensity and slope gradient were more influential on runoff with increasing rainfall intensity. The mutual inhibition effect was between clipping intensity and slope gradient on runoff. In order to maintain the sustainability of restoration, a 25-50% vegetation coverage after clipping maximizes the benefits of increasing runoff and maintaining enough soil water supply that prevents possible soil drought. We propose that future vegetation restoration policies should evaluate the appropriate clipping intensity; meanwhile, local physiographic and climate conditions should be considered. These findings may offer guidance for the development of measures for runoff regulation and ecosystem functions of the watershed during vegetation restoration on the northern Loess Plateau. (c) 2023 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BYNC -ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
UT WOS:001225694200001
ER

PT J
AU Ubale, S
   Remenyte-Prescott, R
   Grant, DM
   Stuart, A
   Hague, A
AF Ubale, Salim
   Remenyte-Prescott, Rasa
   Grant, David M.
   Stuart, Alastair
   Hague, Adam
TI A Petri Net-based asset management model for polymer electrolyte
   membrane electrolyser balance of plant
DE Petri Nets; PEM electrolyser; Hydrogen; Reliability; Degradation; Asset
   management
ID PEM WATER ELECTROLYZER; RELIABILITY-ANALYSIS; DEGRADATION; SAFETY
AB Reliability analysis of hydrogen energy devices such as polymer electrolyte membrane electrolysers (PEMEs) requires dynamic modelling to account for interacting components and fluctuating operating conditions. Traditional static reliability techniques often rely on simplified assumptions, such as independent component failures, and therefore cannot adequately model critical phenomena such as cell degradation, interactions between cell failures in the PEME stack, or the effects of changing environmental conditions. This paper addresses these limitations by proposing a novel Petri Net-based asset management model for a PEME Balance of Plant (BoP). It integrates the processes of cell-stack degradation, BoP component failures, inspection, and maintenance. The Petri Net model represents dynamic behaviours, concurrent processes, and interdependencies among system components, providing a comprehensive means of evaluating degradation and availability. The model also captures concurrent degradation and failure interactions between the cells and the BoP components, including the power supply and water subsystem. In addition, the lifetime and operational performance of a PEME are strongly influenced by a range of operating conditions, which include, the operating power, water purity, water flow rate, temperature, pressure, and current density, all of which are incorporated into the model, given their significant impact on both cell degradation and overall system reliability. Monte Carlo simulation is employed to quantify degradation and failure patterns, and to compute reliability and availability metrics. The results demonstrate the suitability of the proposed Petri Net-based asset management framework and its potential to support asset management decision makers within the renewable hydrogen production industry.
UT WOS:001813485600001
ER

PT J
AU Nofal, O
   Rosenheim, N
   Kameshwar, S
   Patil, J
   Zhou, XN
   van de Lindt, JW
   Duenas-Osorio, L
   Cha, EJ
   Endrami, A
   Sutley, E
   Cutler, H
   Lu, T
   Wang, C
   Jeon, H
AF Nofal, Omar
   Rosenheim, Nathanael
   Kameshwar, Sabarethinam
   Patil, Jayant
   Zhou, Xiangnan
   van de Lindt, John W.
   Duenas-Osorio, Leonardo
   Cha, Eun Jeong
   Endrami, Amin
   Sutley, Elaina
   Cutler, Harvey
   Lu, Tao
   Wang, Chen
   Jeon, Hwayoung
TI Community-level post-hazard functionality methodology for buildings
   exposed to floods
ID RESILIENCE; RECOVERY; MODEL; VULNERABILITY; FRAMEWORK
AB This paper presents a building-level post-hazard functionality model for communities exposed to flood hazards including the interdependencies between the population, buildings, and infrastructure. An existing portfolio of building archetypes is used to model the post-hazard physical flood functionality of different building typologies within the community with the goal of supporting resilience-informed decision-making. Specific fragility-based flood functionality curves were developed for this portfolio to quantify the exceedance probability of a prescribed set of functionality states. While the physical functionality of buildings is significant to the total functionality of a building and community resilience assessment, the functionality of utilities such as power and water along with the accessibility of the household to essential services such as schools and hospitals is crucial to measure their total functionality. Therefore, functionality models for essential infrastructure were developed to assess housing unit- and building-level functionality following flood hazards. This model also accounts for the functionality of the road network following a flood hazard to identify the level of accessibility of households to different services (e.g., schools, hospitals, gas stations, shopping centers, etc.). The main novelty of this paper is the ability to quantify the total functionality of buildings based on a socio-physical formulation after including the interdependencies between the functionality of the physical systems and the subsequent functionality of the socio-economic systems, which is key to measuring resilience at the community level. This was evident from the analysis results using a testbed community of Lumberton, NC, showing that the physical functionality is not sufficient to quantify the total post-hazard functionality of buildings and that the functionality of other subsystems such as utilities and accessibility to essential services are also needed to quantify the total functionality of buildings and the livability of households.
UT WOS:001144574700001
ER

PT J
AU Lu, XD
   Li, CS
   Liu, D
   Zhu, ZW
   Wang, H
   Tan, XQ
   Xu, RL
AF Lu, Xueding
   Li, Chaoshun
   Liu, Dong
   Zhu, Zhiwei
   Wang, He
   Tan, Xiaoqiang
   Xu, Rongli
TI Nonlinear damping characteristic analysis of hydropower systems based on
   a reliable damping quantification method
DE Nonlinear damping characteristic; Damping quantification method; Low
   frequency oscillation; Hydro -turbine governing system; Nonlinear
   modeling
ID LOW-FREQUENCY OSCILLATIONS; POWER-SYSTEM; STABILITY ANALYSIS;
   SUPPRESSION METHOD; MECHANISM; DESIGN; MODEL
AB This paper aims to study the nonlinear damping characteristic of hydro-turbine governing systems (HTGS) in various frequency bands and improve the reliability of nonlinear damping quantification. Firstly, an HTGS model including multiple hydraulic-mechanical nonlinearities is established using an actual hydropower system as the object. Then, a trajectory quantification method is proposed to enhance the accuracy and stability of the damping calculation. On this basis, the influence of the hydraulic and controller parameters on the HTGS damping in the ultra-low and low frequency band is analyzed. Finally, a deviation indicator is defined to analyze the contribution level of each nonlinear factor to the damping characteristics, and the action mechanism of dominant nonlinearity on damping is further investigated. The results show that increasing the controller parameter and hydraulic parameter decreases the minimum damping of the HTGS. The total deviation of damping under the influence of nonlinearity reaches 1.31 times. Among them, water system nonlinearity and governor delay are two major nonlinearities, and their influence on damping characteristics accounts for 41.4% and 34.4% of the total nonlinear influence, respectively. This paper provides a powerful tool to quantify the damping of nonlinear HTGS and potentially supports the regulation performance enhancement of HTGS.
UT WOS:001180336100001
ER

PT J
AU Wei, PB
   Peng, YF
   Chen, WD
AF Wei, Pengbang
   Peng, Yufang
   Chen, Weidong
TI Climate Change Vulnerability and Key Adaptation Trajectory of the
   Regional Economic System
ID ELECTRICITY DEMAND; ADAPTIVE CAPACITY; CHANGE IMPACTS; TEMPERATURE;
   MODEL
AB From the microperspective, climate change restricts human life in many aspects, and it affects the regional economic system from the macroperspective. The paper presents an inoperability input-output model (IIM) that is an extension approach of the Leontief input-output model. The IIM is able to provide a feasible methodology for measuring the impact of vulnerable economic factors on the whole economic system and identifying the key adaptation trajectory of the economic system. The IIM is applied in Tianjin to explore its dilemmas facing the increased demand for electricity, water, and public health service sectors under the RCP2.5, RCP4.5, and RCP8.5 climate scenarios. The results indicated that the inoperability ranking of all economic sectors is the same under the three climate scenarios. The key adaptation trajectory in Tianjin is S40, S27, S25, S17, S12, S02, S21, S16, S09, S24, S29, S33, S19, S13, and S15 sector in order. The costs required by the key adaptation trajectory to adapt to climate change account for more than 90% of that required by the whole economic system. These results can be helpful for policy-makers to prioritize sectors in terms of climate adaptation and understand the efficacy of climate change risk mitigation strategies.
UT WOS:000669025800001
ER

PT C
AU Campana, PE
   Quan, SJ
   Robbio, FI
   Lundblad, A
   Zhang, Y
   Ma, T
   Yan, JY
AF Campana, Pietro Elia
   Quan, Steven Jige
   Robbio, Federico Ignacio
   Lundblad, Anders
   Zhang, Yang
   Ma, Tao
   Yan, Jinyue
BE Yan, J
   Chen, B
   Yang, J
TI Spatial optimization of residential urban district - Energy and water
   perspectives
DE Optimization; genetic algorithm; renewable energy; hybrid power systems;
   water harvesting; residential urban districts
ID MULTIOBJECTIVE OPTIMIZATION; SYSTEMS; BUILDINGS
AB Many cities around the world have reached a critical situation when it comes to energy and water supply, threatening the urban sustainable development. The aim of this paper is to develop a spatial optimization model for the planning of residential urban districts with special consideration of renewables and water harvesting integration. In particular, the paper analyses the optimal configuration of built environment area, PV area, wind turbines number and relative occupation area, battery and water harvester storage capacities, as a function of electricity and water prices. The optimization model is multi-objective which uses a genetic algorithm to minimize the system life cycle costs, and maximize renewables and water harvesting reliability.
   The developed model can be used for spatial optimization design of new urban districts. It can also be employed for analyzing the performances of existing urban districts under an energy-water-economic viewpoint.
   Assuming a built environment area equal to 75% of the total available area, the results show that the reliability of the renewables and water harvesting system cannot exceed the 6475 and 2500 hours/year, respectively. The life cycle costs of integrating renewables and water harvesting into residential districts are mainly sensitive to the battery system specific costs since most of the highest renewables reliabilities are guaranteed through the energy storage system. (C) 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
UT WOS:000387975200006
ER

PT J
AU Lin, HT
   Basem, A
   Yang, YH
   Alkhayyat, A
   Alhumaid, S
   Zhu, P
   Alotaibi, TS
   Jaghdam, IH
   Alkhalaf, S
   Ali, HE
AF Lin, Haitao
   Basem, Ali
   Yang, Yinghe
   Alkhayyat, Ahmad
   Alhumaid, Saleh
   Zhu, Peng
   Alotaibi, Tahani S.
   Jaghdam, Ines Hilali
   Alkhalaf, Salem
   Ali, H. Elhosiny
TI Leveraging cascade heat recovery from a gas turbine cycle in a
   sustainable integrated energy system; multi-objective optimization using
   radial basis function-driven Ant Colony algorithm
DE Cascade heat recovery; Sustainability; Profitability; Ant Colony
   algorithm; Data-driven approach; Cleaner production
ID ORGANIC RANKINE-CYCLE; POWER-GENERATION; NATURAL-GAS; EXERGOECONOMIC
   ANALYSIS; THERMODYNAMIC ANALYSIS; PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS; EXERGY;
   DESALINATION; HYDROGEN; WATER
AB This study creates a novel framework for the modelling, assessment, and optimization of an integrated energy system that designed to simultaneously generate cooling energy, potable water, and electricity. The novel configuration leverages cascade heat recovery from a gas turbine cycle by integrating a series of advanced subsystems such as organic Rankine, a supercritical carbon dioxide, a dual-effect thermal desalination and absorption refrigeration. A detailed simulation analysis, parametric and sensitivity study is carried out to critically assess the performance of the integrated plant. Furthermore, an Ant Colony 3D-optimization method based on the Radial Basis Function model is utilized to intelligently direct the optimization process and improves the responsiveness and flexibility of the system under a wide range of operating conditions. Based on the results obtained, the suggested system can exhibit superior performance with exergy efficiency of 44.43%, electrical efficiency of 43.99%, and thermal efficiency of 72.25%. In addition to strong thermodynamic performance, the system demonstrates a comparatively low footprint of 0.37 kgCO2/kWh and total emissions of only 1580 kgCO2 per hour. Also, the system reflects high financial viability by suggesting strong potential for long-term profitability as depicted with a net present of 27.75 $M and a payback of only 5.45 years. Also, the optimization process yields an elevated exergy efficiency of 71.21%, an increased net present of 62.98 $M, and a reduced carbon footprint of 0.23 kgCO2/kWh.
UT WOS:001716483600001
ER

PT J
AU Hua, JY
   Chen, YP
   Wu, JF
AF Hua Junye
   Chen Yaping
   Wu Jiafeng
TI Thermal performance of a modified ammonia-water power cycle for
   reclaiming mid/low-grade waste heat
DE Ammonia-water; Kalina cycle; Circulation multiple; Solution
   concentration; Thermal performance
ID THERMODYNAMIC ANALYSIS; ORGANIC RANKINE; OPTIMIZATION; GENERATION
AB A modified Kalina cycle was simulated, which is a triple-pressure ammonia-water power cycle adding a preheater and a water-cooling solution cooler to the original loop. The cycle acquires higher power recovery efficiency by realizing proper internal recuperation and suitable temperature-difference in phase change processes to match both heat source and cooling water. The influences of some key parameters on the thermodynamic performance of the cycle were discussed, including the work and basic concentrations of solution, circulation multiple and the turbine inlet temperature. It is shown that the basic concentration should match the work concentration for higher efficiency. Although higher work concentration could be slightly beneficial to cycle efficiency, the work concentration is mainly determined by considering the suitable turbine inlet/back pressure. Besides, this cycle can be used as a cogeneration system of power and sanitary or heating hot water. The calculation example presented finally with the turbine inlet parameters of 300 degrees C/6 MPa and the cycle lowest temperature of 30 degrees C shows that the power recovery efficiency reaches 15.87%, which is about 16.6% higher than that of the steam Rankine cycle. And it also provides 50.7 degrees C sanitary water with about a quarter of the total heating load reclaimed. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000340213800045
ER

PT J
AU Toker, SC
   Kizilkan, O
   Nizetic, S
AF Toker, Serpil Celik
   Kizilkan, Onder
   Nizetic, Sandro
TI Integrated binary geothermal-LNG cold energy recovery multigeneration
   system for urban energy applications
DE Urban energy system; Geothermal; Polygeneration; LNG cold recovery;
   Hydrogen production; Multi-objective optimization
ID THERMOECONOMIC ANALYSIS; EXERGOECONOMIC ANALYSIS; TRIGENERATION SYSTEM;
   RENEWABLE ENERGY; RANKINE-CYCLE; FRESH-WATER; OPTIMIZATION; PERFORMANCE;
   HEAT; ELECTRICITY
AB The increasing demand for low-carbon energy solutions in the building sector has intensified interest in geothermal-based polygeneration systems capable of delivering multiple energy services from a single renewable source. This study proposes an advanced geothermal-driven polygeneration configuration integrating a Kalina cycle, a transcritical CO2 Rankine cycle, an organic Rankine cycle, liquefied natural gas cold energy recovery, multi-stage flash desalination, and a proton exchange membrane electrolyzer. The system is modeled in Engineering Equation Solver and evaluated through comprehensive energy, exergy, economic, and environmental analyses. A parametric investigation is conducted by varying the geothermal inlet temperature between 180 degrees C and 240 degrees C, and a multi-objective optimization approach is applied to examine trade-offs among thermodynamic performance, irreversibility, and cost. Under base operating conditions, the system produces 1966 kW of net power, 5818 kW of district heating, 10.55 m3/h of freshwater, and 2.727 kg/h of hydrogen, achieving overall energy and exergy efficiencies of 68.22% and 39.32%, respectively. Exergy analysis reveals that major irreversibilities originate from condensation processes and heat transfer interactions, highlighting the importance of thermal matching within the heat exchanger network. Increasing geothermal temperature enhances useful outputs while reducing the levelized cost of electricity and water, whereas the levelized cost of hydrogen shows only a slight increase due to electrolysis-related costs. The proposed system demonstrates strong potential as a flexible geothermal energy hub for building and district-scale applications requiring simultaneous electricity, heating, and freshwater production.
UT WOS:001845304200001
ER

PT J
AU Smith, D
   Altekruse, SF
   Bailey, JS
AF Smith, D.
   Altekruse, S. F.
   Bailey, J. S.
TI Assessment of post-hurricane katrina recovery in poultry slaughter
   establishments
ID ESCHERICHIA-COLI; SALMONELLA; STRESS; CAMPYLOBACTER; CARCASSES
AB Control of bacterial contamination during poultry slaughter can be compromised by natural disaster. In October 2005, disaster recovery was evaluated in I I broiler slaughter establishments I month after operations were disrupted by Hurricane Katrina. A questionnaire was administered to characterize the establishment's operational disruption. Carcass rinses were collected at the early and late stage of the slaughter process (rehang and postchill). Counts for generic Escherichia coli were determined for all rinses. Salmonella culture and serotyping were performed on postchill samples. Historical U.S. Food Safety and Inspection Service data on the presence of Salmonella also were examined. The mean duration of disruption was 6.3 days (range, 3 to 9 days). Loss of utilities (electricity and water) was the cause of prolonged recoveries. Most establishments (64%) did not exceed the m performance criteria threshold for generic E. coli (> 2 log or 100 CFU/m1) during the recovery period. The mean reduction in E. coli counts between rehang and postchill was 2.3 log or 200 CFU/ml (range, 0.9 to 3.1 log CFU/ml). Rinse samples from 5 of I I establishments were positive for Salmonella. Of 12 Salmonella isolates that were recovered, eight were Salmonella Kentucky. Salmonella Heidelberg and Salmonella Thompson were recovered from one establishment, and two isolates of Salmonella Typhimurium were isolated from another. This study provided empirical reassurance that the establishments' processes controlled bacterial contamination. Data on reductions in E. coli counts during poultry slaughter may help establishments control microbial contamination. Other data (e.g., Salmonella and Campylobacter enumeration) may also have merit for this purpose.
UT WOS:000247090600026
ER

PT J
AU Ouache, R
   Guo, JC
   Bristow, D
AF Ouache, Rachid
   Guo, Jack
   Bristow, David
TI An integrated multi-hazard resilience framework for facility operations:
   Analysis of buildings' interdependencies
DE Building interdependencies; Facility operations resilience; Multi-hazard
   assessment; Critical infrastructure; Disaster vulnerability; Building
   service availability; Damage modelling
AB This research addresses one of the critical challenges of enhancing facility resilience against natural hazards by examining interdependencies among essential building services, including power, water, HVAC (Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning), telecommunications, access, and critical services. Using existing literature, reinforced by field survey data of federal facilities in Canada, seventeen templates were developed to capture the dependencies between building and site services on physical assets. These template dependency models are then integrated with multi-hazard probabilistic damage assessment to develop a framework for assessing the availability of facility critical services under multiple natural hazards. This framework was applied in a Canadian facility to illustrate the approach's effectiveness. The analysis revealed gaps in postdisaster service availability with power, water, and HVAC systems reporting only 67 % availability, indicating vulnerabilities in the buildings' services. While telecommunications showed greater resilience at 83 %, access remained a pressing issue, with only 33 % of buildings deemed accessible, hindering emergency response efforts. Notably, critical services were 100 % available following the events. The findings also highlighted that earthquakes present a more substantial threat than floods, with only 67 % of the services available in the facility post-earthquake compared to 92 % following floods. Additionally, the analysis indicated that flood events posed more significant risks to most services; 31 % of flood-sensitive components were linked to electrical distribution and HVAC systems, while 19 % of earthquake-sensitive components were primarily structural. This research contributes to disaster preparedness by providing a practical analysis approach that help stakeholders derive actionable risk insights for facilities with interdependencies.
UT WOS:001464394400001
ER

PT J
AU Ward, NE
   Ward, DL
AF Ward, NE
   Ward, DL
TI Resident fish in the Columbia River Basin: Restoration, enhancement, and
   mitigation for losses associated with hydroelectric development and
   operations
ID WHITE STURGEON; KOOTENAI RIVER; ACIPENSER-TRANSMONTANUS; POPULATIONS;
   SALMONIDS; TROUT
AB Development and operation of Columbia River Basin hydroelectric facilities have contributed to the reduction in diversity and abundance of some native resident fish. To mitigate for effects of hydroelectric development and operations, the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) annually funds fisheries research and management efforts. In 2003, the BPA provided $19.2 million for the implementation of 54 resident fish projects that were recommended for funding by the Columbia Basin Fish and Wildlife Authority and Northwest Power and Conservation Council through the council's Columbia River Basin Fish and Wildlife Program. Through the resident fish segment of this program, managers have begun to better understand and manage impacted resident fish habitats and populations; however, restoration of resident fish populations will require cooperation among resident and anadromous fish mangers, hydrosystem operators, and federal regulators. Managers must ensure that power, water management, and land-use decisions consider effects on all fish populations. Only by better understanding the effects of hydroelectric operations on all potentially affected fish populations can fisheries managers develop an integrated program to mitigate and enhance resident fish resources of the Columbia River Basin. Costs, time, necessary cooperation, and existing regulations are challenges that could compromise the effort.
UT WOS:000220166100007
ER

PT J
AU Oberle, P
   Ikhwan, M
   Nestmann, F
   Fritz, J
   Ravisundar, T
AF Oberle, Peter
   Ikhwan, Muhammad
   Nestmann, Franz
   Fritz, Jochen
   Ravisundar, Thillainatarajan
TI Adapted Water Supply Technology Using Pumps as Turbines
AB For utilising water power, inversely operating centrifugal pumps can be a cost-effective alternative to classical turbines. Besides lower investment costs, they are characterized by robustness and low operating and service costs. Due to the non-adjustability of the pump hydraulic parts, efficient operation depends on an adequate choice of pump type as well as compliance with its optimal hydraulic operating range. By implementing several parallel modules and suitably modifying the pumps, an increase in maximum efficiency can be achieved even for a strongly fluctuating discharge. In cooperation of the University of Karlsruhe and KSB AG, reverse running centrifugal pumps were directly coupled with multistage ring section pumps for energy self-sufficient potable water discharge of a karst cave in Indonesia.
UT WOS:000268986900011
ER

PT J
AU Massie, DD
   Boettner, DD
   Massie, CA
AF Massie, Darrell D.
   Boettner, Daisie D.
   Massie, Cheryl A.
TI Residential experience with proton exchange membrane fuel cell systems
   for combined heat and power
AB As part of a one-year Department of Defense demonstration project, proton exchange membrane fuel cell systems have been installed at three residences to provide electrical power and waste heat for domestic hot water and space heating. The 5 kW capacity fuel cells operate on reformed natural gas. These systems operate at preset levels providing power to the residence and to the utility, grid. During grid outages, the residential power source is disconnected from the grid and the fuel cell system operates in standby mode to provide power to critical loads in the residence. This paper describes lessons learned from installation and operation of these fuel cell systems in existing residences. Issues associated with installation of a fuel cell system for combined heat and power focus primarily on fuel cell siting, plumbing external to the fuel cell unit required to support heat recovery, and line connections between the fuel cell unit and the home interior for natural gas, water; electricity, and communications. Operational considerations of the fuel cell system are linked to heat recovery system design and conditions required for adequate flow of natural gas, air water and system communications. Based on actual experience with these systems in. a residential setting, proper system design, component installation, and sustainment of required flows are essential for the fuel cell system to provide reliable power and waste heat.
UT WOS:000237946400008
ER

PT C
AU Jiang, Q
   Lin, SY
   Sun, PZ
AF Jiang, Qiang
   Lin, Shiying
   Sun, Peize
GP Destech Publicat Inc
TI Research on Machine Manufacturing for a New Type of the Sewage Recycling
   and Energy Saving Car-washing Machine
AB The traditional car-washing method with the huge consumption of the water and electricity is the important obstacle of the car cleaning industry progress today, which is in the condition of the increasing short of water resources and energy. As a result, designing a new type of the sewage recycling energy and saving car-washing machine is very important with the characteristics of water saving, energy saving, lightweight and portable. The car-washing machine not only makes the spray wash, the catchment and the purification as a whole, but also cooperates the spraying module, the wiping module, the dry module, the recovery module, the purification module and the circulation module with clever. In the process of design, the SolidWorks has been taken as the design platform to complete the virtual prototype parametric design, the rationality of the agency design and the correctness of the functions is verified through the Simulation Module to carry out the dynamics simulation analysis and modal analysis on the stress storage tank. Equipment and machinery from PVC plastic and aluminum and other materials are portable and reliable.
UT WOS:000361748500027
ER

PT J
AU Shahzad, AA
   Bamigbade, A
   Gandhi, K
   Barbosa, JD
   Sleptchenko, A
   Apostoleris, HN
   Sgouridis, S
AF Shahzad, Ansari Aadil
   Bamigbade, Abdullahi
   Gandhi, Krishiv
   Barbosa, Juan David
   Sleptchenko, Andrei
   Apostoleris, Harry Nicholas
   Sgouridis, Sgouris
TI Realizing renewable resilience: Lessons from the Middle East for the
   global energy transition
DE Modeled future power; Demand flexibility; energy
ID STORAGE; ELECTRICITY; WIND; COST; SYSTEMS; SOLAR; TECHNOLOGIES;
   PERFORMANCE; HYDROGEN; CAPTURE
AB Maintaining reliable energy supplies with resilience to extreme weather, water shortage and rising electricity and cooling demand is crucial to successfully implementing the clean energy transition. The integrated power and water systems found in several hyper -arid countries, featuring cooling -driven electrical demand and near -total dependence on seawater desalination, offer case studies illustrating energy system robustness to these conditions. We use linear optimization to minimize costs in a model system based on the resiliency -oriented energy system of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) while progressively decarbonizing the energy mix. We demonstrate that high levels of renewable energy adoption are economically favorable under conservative future technology cost assumptions, even including strict resiliency requirements, and draw conclusions for other energy systems making the transition to renewable energy under challenging climatic conditions, especially regarding the role of water desalination, demand flexibility, energy storage, and suitability of conventional design rules for ensuring resilience in renewable -dominated systems.
UT WOS:001261633400001
ER

PT J
AU Pandey, S
   Kumar, P
   Zlatic, M
   Nautiyal, R
   Panwar, VP
AF Pandey, Shachi
   Kumar, Parmanand
   Zlatic, Miodrag
   Nautiyal, Raman
   Panwar, Vijender Pal
TI Recent advances in assessment of soil erosion vulnerability in a
   watershed
DE Soil erosion vulnerability; RUSLE; MCDM
ID SYSTEME HYDROLOGIQUE EUROPEEN; LOSS EQUATION RUSLE; SEDIMENT YIELD;
   LAND-USE; RIVER-BASIN; RISK-ASSESSMENT; DRAINAGE-BASIN; EUROSEM MODEL;
   GIS FRAMEWORK; FUZZY-LOGIC
AB Soil erosion is one of the most critical hazards adversely affecting both environment and economy. Assessment of the annual soil erosion rate provides information on soil erosion risk zones indicating the areas with high, severe and low risks. Modelling and prediction of soil erosion has a long history of more than seven decades. It becomes imperative to be familiar with the quantum of studies conducted and methods employed across the world to assess vulnerability of ecosystems to soil erosion to plan strategies for their conservation. There are several methods based on various factors like land use, soil quality, topography etc. available to assess the susceptibility of a region to soil loss. With time the gap in understanding of such models and their use around the world has increased. Numerous models for assessing soil erosion exist but there is a lack of knowledge on spatial distribution of the methods being used. Academic papers related to assessment of soil erosion vulnerability published during the past three decades (1991-2019) were reviewed. Total 160 studies were reviewed to understand advances in the methods used to assess soil erosion vulnerability worldwide, identification of the most popular methods and proportion of studies conducted in the fragile region of Himalayas. The results show that 18 different methods have mainly been used to assess soil erosion risk in different regions. These methods include statistical, physical, process based and empirical models. The use of few physical methods like ANSWERS and SHE has decreased with time while that of physical and process methods like RUSLE, SWAT, WEPP and PESERA has increased with time. The review highlighted that various models being used worldwide are based on their suitability to the region. It also brings to attention that few models like PESERA, EUROSEM and WEPP are mostly being used concentrated in a particular region. Models like PESERA and EPM are mostly used in European region and may be encouraged to estimate soil erosion in Himalayan region. The review also highlights lack of studies with inclusion of water quality as an important parameter while assessing soil erosion vulnerability in the region. The review suggests that in case of lack of data, various statistical methods like PCA, CF, FUZZY etc. can be preferred for qualitative assessment over quantitative assessment. Considering availability of accurate input, researchers need to attempt more methods and perform comparative studies to attain accurate results for assessing soil erosion vulnerability leading to strategizing soil conservation in fragile regions. (C) 2021 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water & Power Press. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd.
UT WOS:000659949800001
ER

PT J
AU Jafarian, M
   Assareh, E
   Agarwal, N
   Saedpanah, E
   Lee, MY
AF Jafarian, Masoud
   Assareh, Ehsanolah
   Agarwal, Neha
   Saedpanah, Ehsan
   Lee, Moonyong
TI Energy, economic, and environmental analysis of combined cooling, heat,
   power and water (CCHPW) system incorporated with photovoltaic/thermal
   collectors and reverse osmosis systems
DE Combined cooling; Heat Power and water system; TRNSYS simulation;
   Response surface method; Life cycle analysis; Renewable energy;
   Photovoltaic thermal collectors
ID MULTIOBJECTIVE OPTIMIZATION; SURFACE METHODOLOGY; DESIGN; STRATEGY;
   DRIVEN; COST; PLANT
AB Scientific investigations show that multi-generation via wise and purposive integration of energy system components could be significantly effective for better economic feasibility as well as efficiency and reliability of supply by renewable sources. Considering this fact and taking into account energy, economic, and environmental factors, this study provides the best possible setup of a novel combined cooling, heating, power, and water (CCHPW) system for coastal areas by employing response surface methodology (RSM) and TRNSYS simulation. This multi-component multi-generation system comprises photovoltaic/thermal (PV/T) collectors, a heat pump, a desiccant wheel, fuel cells, a reverse osmosis system, a battery, and a hydrogen storage unit. The system is dynamically simulated in the TRNSYS environment. The impacts of the selected design parameters on the techno-economic-environmental performances of the system are investigated after the RSM identifies the ideal configuration. The results for the weather conditions and consumption patterns of Dubai and Barcelona (as the two case studies) indicate that the total electricity consumption of the system can be reduced by 72.3% and 64.6% compared to the base system, respectively. Besides, the total environmental damage of the system is diminished by 29.2% for Dubai and 8.1% for Barcelona compared to the base system. Overall findings reveal that accounting for energy, economic and environmental aspects of the CCHPW system can improve the decision-making process.
UT WOS:001056952100001
ER

PT J
AU Sütiçen, TC
   Batun, S
   Çelik, M
AF Suticen, Tugce Canbilen
   Batun, Sakine
   Celik, Melih
TI Integrated reinforcement and repair of interdependent infrastructure
   networks under disaster-related uncertainties
DE OR in societal problem analysis; Disaster management; Interdependent
   infrastructures; Stochastic programming; Genetic algorithms
ID MATHEMATICAL FRAMEWORK; ROUTING PROBLEM; DESIGN PROBLEM; RESILIENCE;
   RESTORATION; SYSTEMS; OPTIMIZATION; RELIEF
AB Natural or human-inflicted disasters may cause large-scale disruptions in the services of infrastructure networks including power, water, and telecommunication. Restoring the services of these infrastructures is vital in the aftermath of the disaster, so that search-and-rescue activities, relief transportation, and restoration efforts can be efficiently facilitated. On the other hand, operations of these infrastructures may depend on receiving services from one another, resulting in an interdependent network structure. Consequently, addressing the decisions of network reinforcement before the disaster and the repairs in its aftermath needs to take into account this interdependent structure, as well as the uncertainties arising from the timing, location, and magnitude of the disaster.This paper introduces the Stochastic Interdependent Infrastructure Reinforcement and Repair Problem, which considers the pre-disaster reinforcement of interdependent network components and post-disaster repair scheduling in an integrated manner. In making these decisions, the uncertainty on which network components will be disrupted is incorporated into the problem definition. The problem is modeled using scenario-based two-stage stochastic programming. A heuristic based on a genetic algorithm and partial optimization is proposed to solve realistically-sized instances of the problem. Computational experiments not only show that the heuristic is able to find near-optimal solutions within reasonable times, but also illustrate the ability of the approach to help derive managerial insights.(c) 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000992042900001
ER

PT J
AU Campana, PE
   Li, HL
   Yan, JY
AF Campana, Pietro Elia
   Li, Hailong
   Yan, Jinyue
TI Techno-economic feasibility of the irrigation system for the grassland
   and farmland conservation in China: Photovoltaic vs. wind power water
   pumping
DE Photovoltaic; Wind; Water pumping; Irrigation; Crop yield; Simulation
ID CARBON SEQUESTRATION; DRIP IRRIGATION; CLIMATE-CHANGE; SOLAR;
   OPTIMIZATION; GENERATION; TURBINES; REGIONS; STORAGE; MODEL
AB Photovoltaic water pumping (PVWP) and wind power water pumping (WPWP) systems for irrigation represent innovative solutions for the restoration of degraded grassland and the conservation of farmland in remote areas of China. The present work systematically compares the technical and economic suitability of such systems, providing a general approach for the design and selection of the suitable technology for irrigation purposes. The model calculates the PVWP and WPWP systems sizes based on irrigation water requirement (IWR), solar irradiation and wind speed. Based on the lowest PVWP and WPWP systems components costs, WPWP systems can compete with PVWP systems only at high wind speed and low solar irradiation values. Nevertheless, taking into account the average specific costs both for PVWP and WPWP systems, it can be concluded that the most cost-effective solution for irrigation is site specific. According to the dynamic simulations, it has also been found that the PVWP systems present better performances in terms of matching between IWR and water supply compared to the WPWP systems. The mismatch between IWR and pumped water resulted in a reduction of crop yield. Therefore, the dynamic simulations of the crop yield are essential for economic assessment and technology selection. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000359873300032
ER

PT J
AU Travers, G
   Kibirango, S
   Zhang, LD
   Kalumuna, A
   Nannozi, W
   Tusiime, R
   Damoi, J
   Giibwa, A
   Bandyopadhyay, R
   George, G
   Marin, M
AF Travers, Grace
   Kibirango, Saul
   Zhang, Linda
   Kalumuna, Anna
   Nannozi, Winfred
   Tusiime, Ronard
   Damoi, Joseph
   Giibwa, Angellica
   Bandyopadhyay, Reetwan
   George, George
   Marin, Michael
TI Establishing environmental sustainability in a resource-limited surgical
   setting: the design of Kyabirwa surgical center
DE Environmental sustainability; Ambulatory surgery; Global surgery;
   Uganda; Waste reduction; Resource optimization; Medical waste
   management; Solar power
ID LOCAL-ANESTHESIA
AB BackgroundThe healthcare industry is a leading contributor to climate change and resource depletion and its footprint is growing given efforts to improve healthcare access worldwide. Low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) are most vulnerable to this environmental degradation due to their relatively weaker infrastructure and lack of resources. This case study describes the infrastructure and procedures that drive environmental sustainability at Kyabirwa Surgical Center (KSC), an ambulatory surgery facility in rural Uganda that has cared for over 25,000 patients since its 2019 inception.MethodsKSC was architecturally designed with the goal of zero carbon footprint, exemplifying how environmental sustainability can be achieved in low-resource settings. In collaboration with a New York-based institution, Ugandan stakeholders constructed the original 8500 ft2 center with local materials, leveraging natural resources such as sunlight and natural ventilation to minimize energy required. The center also prioritized operational independence from the local power grid and water supply, nearly exclusively using solar power and rainwater. Specific treatment and storage protocols, like environmentally conscious anesthesia regimens, were also implemented to minimize environmental footprint.ResultsFrom 2021 to 2023, KSC obtained only 0.4% of its power and 25% of its water from the town. Excluding installation, this saves KSC an estimated $6,121 in annual operating costs-greater than annual maintenance costs estimated at $5,040. KSC also conserved 11% of solar power produced and 93% of rainwater collected from 2021 to 2023 for future use. Lastly, 71% of procedures were completed under environmentally friendly alternatives to general anesthesia.ConclusionIntegrating sustainability into LMIC surgical care is essential for improving healthcare resilience and accessibility. KSC shows that sustainable surgical models are feasible with innovative design, renewable energy, and potentially cost-effective practices. Scaling these efforts requires global collaboration, particularly support from high-income countries (HICs), to build resilient health systems in the face of climate change and resource limitations.
UT WOS:001510303200001
ER

PT J
AU EL Hafa, H
AF EL Hafa, Hanane
TI Urgent action needed to address the epidemiological threat of prolonged
   war in Gaza
DE Gaza strip; Acute malnutrition; Famine; Children's health; Pregnant
   women; Food insecurity; Humanitarian crisis; Public health emergency;
   UNICEF; Conflict-related hunger
AB The prolonged war in Gaza has led to the near-total collapse of the healthcare system, leaving over two million people without access to essential medical services, clean water, electricity, or basic sanitation. Many hospitals have been bombed or are barely functioning due to extreme constraints. Healthcare personnel are overwhelmed, injured, or forced to work under dangerous conditions. Essential medicines and vaccines are critically lacking. In this context, the risk of large-scale outbreaks of infectious diseases-such as cholera, hepatitis A, measles, and typhoid fever-is rapidly increasing, especially among displaced populations living in overcrowded and unsanitary conditions. This policy comment highlights the urgent need for coordinated international action to prevent a major public health catastrophe. It calls for the immediate protection of remaining health infrastructure, restoration of disease surveillance systems, and facilitation of humanitarian access for medical supplies and personnel. Without swift intervention, thousands more lives could be lost-not just to violence, but to entirely preventable and treatable illnesses. Protecting public health during war is not optional-it is a binding duty under international law, and a pressing moral imperative for the global community.
UT WOS:001576815300002
ER

PT J
AU Corotis, RB
   Straub, D
   Breitung, K
   Janowicz, H
AF Corotis, Ross B.
   Straub, Daniel
   Breitung, Karl
   Janowicz, Holly
TI Combinatorial analysis for probabilistic assessment of dependent
   failures in systems and portfolios
DE Building portfolios; Combinatorics; Multivariate integration;
   Reliability bounds; System reliability
ID RELIABILITY; BOUNDS
AB System reliability is usefully applied to assess the performance of individual structures and portfolios of structures. In many instances, one is interested in knowing the probability that m failures have occurred among n components in a system, or that at least m failures have occurred among n components. Examples include structural failure modes within a single infrastructure or building, buildings and structures within a portfolio, or components of infrastructure systems such as transportation, water, power and communications. In cases where failure events in different components are statistically independent and their probability is identical, the number of component failures follows the binomial distribution. However, in most situations, these conditions do not hold. In this paper, we present a combinatorial formulation for computing the probability of m failures out of n system components for the general case, based on an extension of the inclusion-exclusion principle for computing the probability of a union. The results have been verified by an existing mathematical approach previously available in a mathematical textbook on combinatorics. The current derivation presents a closed-form accounting scheme derived for the inclusion/exclusion problem of multiple building failures in a portfolio, but also applicable to multiple modes of failure in a structural system. An example application to a portfolio of buildings is presented.
UT WOS:000564641700012
ER

PT J
AU van Vliet, MTH
   Sheffield, J
   Wiberg, D
   Wood, EF
AF van Vliet, Michelle T. H.
   Sheffield, Justin
   Wiberg, David
   Wood, Eric F.
TI Impacts of recent drought and warm years on water resources and
   electricity supply worldwide
DE drought; water resources; water temperature; hydropower; thermoelectric
   power; global
ID CLIMATE-CHANGE; POWER-GENERATION; UNCERTAINTIES; MODEL; HYDROLOGY;
   PRICES
AB Recent droughts and heatwaves showed the vulnerability of the electricity sector to surface water constraints with reduced potentials for thermoelectric power and hydropower generation in different regions. Here we use a global hydrological-electricity modelling framework to quantify the impacts of recent drought and warm years on hydropower and thermoelectric power usable capacity worldwide. Our coupled modelling framework consists of a hydrological model, stream temperature model, hydropower and thermoelectric power models, and was applied with data of a large selection of hydropower and thermoelectric power plants worldwide. Our results show that hydropower utilisation rates were on average reduced by 5.2% and thermoelectric power by 3.8% during the drought years compared to the long-term average for 1981-2010. Statistically significant (p < 0.01) impacts on both hydropower and thermoelectric power usable capacity were found during major drought years, e.g. 2003 in Europe (-6.6% in hydropower and -4.7% in thermoelectric power) and 2007 in Eastern North America (-6.1% in hydropower and -9.0% in thermoelectric power). Our hydrological-electricity modelling framework has potential for studying the linkages between water and electricity supply under climate variability and change, contributing to the quantification of the 'water-energy nexus'.
UT WOS:000390819100001
ER

PT J
AU Singh, M
   Mukoma, P
   North, B
   Majozi, T
AF Singh, Melisha
   Mukoma, Peter
   North, Brian
   Majozi, Thokozani
TI A mathematical model for optimum design and synthesis of a hybrid
   electrolyser-fuel cell system: Production of hydrogen and freshwater
   from seawater
DE Fuel cell; Electrolyser; Design; Synthesis; Hydrogen; Optimisation
ID TECHNOECONOMIC ANALYSIS; PEM ELECTROLYZER; MEMBRANE; OPTIMIZATION;
   PERFORMANCE; SIMULATION; ELECTRODES; PRESSURE; CHANNEL; OXYGEN
AB Fossil fuels have earned a reputation as unsustainable sources of energy, due to the release of carbon emissions that are attributable to global warming. To overcome the extensive release of carbon emissions into the environment, different approaches are being explored to produce energy, by replacing non-renewable fuels with renewable energy. Additionally, many countries across the world are emerging as water-scarce countries, due to the vulnerability of freshwater supply. This work, therefore, focuses on the design and synthesis of a hybrid electrolyser-fuel cell system to generate hydrogen and freshwater from seawater. The proposed system is designed to be integrated with a background process that requires both power and water. It has the potential to reduce the burden on freshwater sources and carbon footprint of background processes, as well as produce power. A one-dimensional, mathematical model is developed for a continuous hybrid seawater electrolyser-fuel cell system operated at steady state. The model determines the optimal operating conditions in terms of temperature, current density, electrode thickness and humidity, as well as the performance of the system through the activation overpotential, diffusion overpotential, ohmic overpotential and the open-circuit voltage. GAMS/BARON is used to optimise the hybrid system. Furthermore, a techno-economic evaluation is conducted to determine the viability of the system. Results indicate that an overall power conversion efficiency of 41.2%, and a freshwater recovery rate of 48.2% is achieved. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000586917600142
ER

PT J
AU Liu, KH
   Hwang, SL
AF Liu, Kang-Hung
   Hwang, Sheue-Ling
TI Human performance evaluation: The procedures of ultimate response
   guideline for nuclear power plants
AB In the nuclear accident which occurred in Japan on March 11, 2011, several units of Fukushima conventional BVVR experienced a total loss of power and water supply triggered by a heavy earthquake and subsequent Tsunami which were outside design models. In the past, when an accident occurred, operators in nuclear power plants (NPP) followed emergency operating procedures (EOPs) or severe accident management guidance (SAMG). However, EOP and SAMG are symptom-based procedures to cope with severe transients and accidents, depending on real-time operational parameters. Ultimate response guidelines (URG), a plant specific interim remedy action plan, was developed to manage accidents caused by compound disasters which exceed design models. The URG guides the plant operators' conduct of reactor depressurization, core cooling water injection, and containment venting. This study adopts NUREG/CR-6883 (Standardized Plant Analysis Risk Human Reliability Analysis, SPAR-H) to evaluate human error probabilities (HEPs) of action and diagnosis in the current URG procedures. We found the human reliability of URG procedures analyzed by SPAR-H is about 85% (depending on different decision makers). Upgrading the training level of staff or enhancing plant managers ability to decide whether to execute URG will enhance the human reliability of URG procedures. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000337856500023
ER

PT J
AU Wang, YQ
   Cao, XX
   Guo, ZH
   Ding, M
AF Wang, Yuqian
   Cao, Xiaxin
   Guo, Zehua
   Ding, Ming
TI Thermo-economic analysis of water-power cogeneration system based on
   low-temperature desalination and nuclear power plant
DE Water-power cogeneration; Economic analysis; Exergy analysis; Wasted
   heat recovery; Desalination
AB Global freshwater scarcity and the insufficient utilization efficiency of low-grade waste heat from nuclear power plants (NPPs) are two critical challenges requiring urgent solutions. To address these issues, this study proposes a water-power cogeneration scheme by coupling a published passive flow flash desalination system driven by natural circulation (PFFD-NCF) with an NPP. The PFFD-NCF directly utilizes exhaust steam from the NPP as the desalination heat source, thereby avoiding the consumption of high-grade energy reserved for electricity generation. From both thermodynamic and economic perspectives, the performance of the cogeneration system is systematically evaluated using key indicators, including overall thermal efficiency, exergy efficiency, levelized cost of water (LCOW), and dynamic payback period. A comparative analysis is conducted against conventional desalination technologies, namely multi-stage flash (MSF), multi-effect distillation (MED), and reverse osmosis (RO). The results indicate that the comprehensive coefficient of the heat-source of the PFFD-NCF is only 0.05, significantly lower than that of conventional technologies (0.137-0.327), demonstrating the minimal parasitic impact on the NPP. Furthermore, the total thermal efficiency of the integrated PFFD-NCF-NPP system is substantially improved, reaching 44.46% and 51.65% at production capacities of 5 & times; 104 t/day and 1 & times; 105 t/day, respectively. From an economic standpoint, the PFFD-NCF system maintains the lowest fuel cost across the full capacity range. However, at small-scale production, the high capital investment results in an elevated LCOW and prevents dynamic cost recovery. When the capacity increases from 5 & times; 104 t/day to 1 & times; 105 t/day, economies of scale reduce capital costs by 10%, lowering the LCOW to 0.777 $/t, with a dynamic payback period of 21.18 years. Although the relatively high initial investment leads to a longer payback period compared with RO, the PFFD-NCF demonstrates superior performance in low-grade waste heat utilization and exhibits favorable economic viability under large-scale operation.
UT WOS:001815114600001
ER

PT J
AU Kar, U
   Nili, S
   Mends, E
   Vahidi, E
   Chu, PB
AF Kar, Umut
   Nili, Sheida
   Mends, Emmanuel
   Vahidi, Ehsan
   Chu, Pengbo
TI A review and environmental impact analysis on the current state of froth
   flotation on recycling of e-wastes
DE E -waste; Flotation; Life cycle assessment; Environmental impacts; GHG
   emission
ID PRINTED-CIRCUIT BOARDS; LITHIUM-ION BATTERIES; LIFE-CYCLE ASSESSMENT;
   END-OF-LIFE; ELECTRONIC WASTE; RECOVERY; METALS; SEPARATION;
   TECHNOLOGIES; GRAPHITE
AB The current recycling methods to recover metal contents from electronic wastes (e-wastes) are primarily chemical based, such as hydrometallurgy, pyrometallurgy. These methods typically do not involve pretreatments to remove non-metallic components, which causes increasing reagent and energy consumption, and greenhouse gas emission during recycling. Mechanical methods exploiting differences in material properties, such as gravity, magnetic, electrostatic, can achieve pre-treatment which receive increasing attention. Amongst different mechanical methods, froth flotation utilizing surface hydrophobicity to achieve the desired separation appears to receive less attention but can be very promising to recycle a variety of e-wastes. In this work, the challenges and advances in the recovery of metals from three main e-wastes, including spent lithium-ion batteries (S-LIBs), waste printed circuit boards (WPCBs), and spent photovoltaic solar panels (S-PVs), using flotation were reviewed. The work also conducted a life cycle analysis to assess the environmental impact of flotation in recycling these e-wastes. According to TRACI standards, flotation reagents have the highest environmental impact compared to electricity and water consumption. The study suggests that flotation can serve as an effective pre-treatment operation prior to the chemical treatment to improve the overall the e-waste recycling but future research is still needed.
UT WOS:001335561100001
ER

PT J
AU Zeng, GQ
   Yang, YW
   Lu, KD
   Geng, GG
   Weng, J
AF Zeng, Guo-Qiang
   Yang, Yao-Wei
   Lu, Kang-Di
   Geng, Guang-Gang
   Weng, Jian
TI Evolutionary Adversarial Autoencoder for Unsupervised Anomaly Detection
   of Industrial Internet of Things
DE Adversarial autoencoder (AE); anomaly detection; automated deep
   learning; industrial Internet of Things (IIoT); particle swarm
   optimization (PSO); unsupervised learning; Adversarial autoencoder (AE);
   anomaly detection; automated deep learning; industrial Internet of
   Things (IIoT); particle swarm optimization (PSO); unsupervised learning
ID INTRUSION DETECTION; NETWORK
AB The rapid growth of interconnected smart devices and advanced computing technologies in the industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) has significantly enhanced operational resilience and performance but also increased cybersecurity risks. While deep learning shows promise in IIoT security, it faces challenges due to the lack of labeled data and reliance on human expertise for unsupervised anomaly detection. To address these challenges, a novel automated adversarial deep learning-based unsupervised anomaly detection method called EvoAAE is proposed to optimize the hyperparameters and neural architectures of adversarial variational autoencoder (VAE) for securing IIoT. Specifically, a generative adversarial network-based VAE is employed to adversarially generate multivariate time series. Then, particle swarm optimization with an efficient binary encoding strategy is designed to evolve hyperparameters and neural architectures in adversarial VAE including batch size, learning rate, the type of optimizer, the number of convolutional layer, the number of kernels of convolutional layer, kernel size, the type of normalization layer, and the type of active function. The experimental results indicate that EvoAAE achieves notable performance across four IIoT datasets in industrial control domain, i.e., secure water treatment, water distribution, Mars Science Laboratory, and power system domain, i.e., power system attack with precision of 0.949, 0.8356, 0.972, and 0.981, recall of 0.971, 0.9214, 0.964, and 0.979, and F-1-score of 0.960, 0.8764, 0.968, and 0.980, respectively.
UT WOS:001411987300001
ER

PT J
AU Hai, T
   El-Shafay, AS
   Chaturvedi, R
   Marjan, RK
   Almujibah, H
   Rajab, H
   Almojil, SF
   Almohana, AI
AF Hai, Tao
   El-Shafay, A. S.
   Chaturvedi, Rishabh
   Marjan, Riyam K.
   Almujibah, Hamad
   Rajab, Husam
   Almojil, Sattam Fahad
   Almohana, Abdulaziz Ibrahim
TI Quantitative assessment of hydrogen blending in a gas turbine-based
   plant for supplying residential electricity, water, and cooling load: A
   techno-economic-environmental optimization
DE Multi-generation system; Gas turbine power plant; Hydrogen blending;
   Optimization; Organic Rankine cycle
ID GEOTHERMAL HEAT-SOURCE; MULTIOBJECTIVE OPTIMIZATION; POWER-GENERATION;
   STEAM-TURBINE; SYSTEM; EXERGY; ENERGY; CYCLE; REFRIGERATION; DRIVEN
AB Heat recovery not only enhances the thermal efficiency of a thermodynamic system but also yields cost and environmental benefits. Additionally, utilizing produced hydrogen as a fuel source, when blended with natural gas, significantly diminishes CO2 emissions. However, a dearth of existing research in the literature that addresses the simultaneous integration of heat recovery and hydrogen blending prompted the authors to propose, design, and model a multi-generation energy system. This proposed system takes into account economic and environmental considerations while incorporating hydrogen blending and heat recovery techniques. The model was developed using MATLAB to accurately calculate the system's functions, and the resulting programming code was meticulously cross-checked against literature findings. To identify the optimal operating conditions for the system, a genetic algorithm optimization approach was employed. The base case results indicated a total cost rate of 7039.4 $/h, an exergy efficiency of 41.01%, and a drinkable water production rate of 830.65 kg/s. Moreover, the optimization results demonstrated improvements in various parameters, with a reduced total cost rate of 6833 $/h, an enhanced exergy efficiency of 49.46%, and an increased drinkable water production rate of 1166.4 kg/s. The introduction of hydrogen blending led to an 8.16% decline in the total cost rate, a 1.15% reduction in CO2 emissions, and a notable 4.6% enhancement in the overall system's exergy efficiency.
UT WOS:001186698600001
ER

PT J
AU Kumar, L
   Sleiti, AK
   Al-Ammari, WA
   Hassan, I
   Rezaei-Gomari, S
   Rahman, MA
AF Kumar, Laveet
   Sleiti, Ahmad K.
   Al-Ammari, Wahib A.
   Hassan, Ibrahim
   Rezaei-Gomari, S.
   Rahman, Mohammad Azizur
TI Thermo-economic analysis of flare gas recovery for power and clean water
   production using integrated concentrated solar power and direct oxy-fuel
   combustion
DE Oxy-combustion; Flare gas; Solar power; Clean water; Energy storage;
   Intermittency; Intermittency
ID OPTIMIZATION; GENERATION
AB This study investigates a novel approach for sustainable power generation and water production by integrating a flare-powered direct oxy-combustion supercritical CO2 power cycle with concentrated solar power. The main objective is to reduce emissions from oil and gas operations while producing clean electricity and water from waste resources. Using validated thermodynamic and economic models, the proposed system's performance was assessed under various operational scenarios and flare gas compositions. Results show that the integrated system improves the cycle efficiency by 11 % and the overall energy efficiency by 26 % compared to conventional standalone systems. It also reduces fuel consumption by 33 % and generates up to 1.38 kg/s of clean water, providing dual benefits in regions facing both energy and water shortages. The thermo-economic analysis reveals a 11 % lower levelized cost of electricity for the integrated system, particularly when utilizing NaNO3/NaNO2/KNO2 (7/40/53 wt%) salt as the thermal energy storage. Unlike prior studies, this study introduces a system that operates without carbon emissions by using pure oxygen for combustion and enables practical integration with solar power without the need for large-scale energy storage. The proposed system offers a techno-economically viable solution for industrial decarbonization and resource recovery, addressing critical gaps in the existing literature.
UT WOS:001596604200011
ER

PT J
AU Guo, JQ
   Wang, WY
   Kwong, P
   Peng, Y
   Jin, ZY
   Chen, ZB
AF Guo, Jiaqi
   Wang, Wenyuan
   Kwong, Philip
   Peng, Yun
   Jin, Zhongyi
   Chen, Zhenbo
TI Multi-water-source dispatch considering energy conservation and
   resources recycling for dust suppression in dry bulk ports
DE Water resource dispatching; Ballast water recovery; Water recycling
   system; Dry bulk ports; Energy conservation
ID OPTIMIZATION; ALLOCATION; CAPACITY; SYSTEM; IMPACT; MODEL
AB Conventional approaches to dust control in dry bulk ports (DBPs) rely heavily on freshwater consumption, thereby exacerbating regional water scarcity. Meanwhile, the discharge of ballast water and stormwater runoff poses environmental risks in port areas. Although the recovery of ballast water and stormwater holds potential to mitigate these challenges, current water resource dispatching in DBPs remains largely reliant on experiencebased decision-making, leading to inefficient scheduling and increased comprehensive costs. To address these limitations, this study develops an integrated water resource dispatching model that optimizes the configuration of water supply in DBPs by minimizing total costs, including water, electricity, and labor, through the recovery, treatment, and reuse of unconventional water, thereby enabling complementary utilization of multiple water sources. Based on empirical data from a large-scale DBP in China, the proposed model achieves a 14.42% reduction in total cost, saves 26,500 kWh of electricity, and cuts carbon emissions by 15 tons compared to rulebased scheduling methods. Moreover, the utilization rate of stormwater and ballast water reaches 20%, underscoring the model's effectiveness in enhancing operational sustainability. A data-driven scenario generation method based on HDBSCAN clustering is employed to structurally characterize the uncertainty of water resource availability across seasons, facilitating the analysis of seasonal variations in water dispatching strategies. The study further examines the impacts of municipal water prices and port characteristics in northern and southern regions on scheduling outcomes. The proposed model offers port managers an adaptive and robust decision-support tool for water resource management, contributing to the sustainable utilization of water resources in port operations.
UT WOS:001781502900001
ER

PT J
AU Dokl, M
   Gomilsek, R
   Cucek, L
   Ben Abikoye
   Kravanja, Z
AF Dokl, Monika
   Gomilsek, Rok
   Cucek, Lidija
   Ben Abikoye
   Kravanja, Zdravko
TI Maximizing the power output and net present value of organic Rankine
   cycle: Application to aluminium industry
DE Waste heat; Waste heat utilization; Aluminium industry; Organic Rankine
   cycle; Power generation; Optimization
ID WASTE HEAT-RECOVERY; EXERGO-ECONOMIC ANALYSIS; MULTIOBJECTIVE
   OPTIMIZATION; WORKING-FLUID; THERMODYNAMIC ANALYSIS; ROBUST
   OPTIMIZATION; ORC SYSTEMS; TEMPERATURE; ENERGY; DESIGN
AB This study presents an integrated design and optimization of an Organic Rankine Cycle (ORC) for the recovery of waste heat from aluminium production. Non-Linear Programming (NLP) models were developed, with the objectives of maximizing electricity production and the Net Present Value (NPV) of the system. The models account for optimizing the operating conditions and changes in thermodynamic features of the system. The developed models are applied to a case study of Slovenian aluminium company where the performance of three different working fluids (R245fa, R1234yf and R1234ze) are compared. The optimization is performed considering different temperatures and prices of produced hot water and electricity, minimum approach temperature (Delta T-min), concentration of CO2 in flue gas and temperature and flowrate of flue gas. Results show that the selected working fluids for the proposed waste heat-based ORC system have the potential to substitute up to about 830 kW of electricity in a sustainable and economic manner. Out of the three working fluids considered, R245fa showed up to 7.9% efficiency of the ORC cycle and was identified as the best performing working fluid considering both economic viability and the amount of electricity produced by the system, however the refrigerant inherently has higher GHG footprint. (C) 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
UT WOS:000753402800008
ER

PT C
AU Dalal, HS
AF Dalal, Hari S.
GP ASHRAE
TI Energy Conservation for an Office Building in a Hot Climate
DE UFAD; SHGF; MEW; ERU; TES
AB Kuwait is located in Middle east region. The weather is very hot. During summer the Ambient temp becomes 52 . C db, and relative humidity varies between 40 % to 60%. Kuwait area is also very dusty due to sand dust.
   HVAC design is a very challenging today. ASHRAE 90.1- is a standard guidelines related to energy saving. Year after year the power requirement becoming less to save energy as well carbon di oxide generation to control the environment. Ministry of electricity and water (MEW) have formulated some guidelines in this aspect Facade glazing, Thermal Energy storage (TES), Energy Recovery Unit (ERU) etc will play related to Energy savings. Manufacturer also trying to improve Energy Efficiency Ratio (EER) of products like chars, fans etc and they are concentrating on development of product by research and development. Noise reductions also Energy Conservation for an Office Building in A Hot Climate, Kuwait
   In this paper, An office building have been considered Office area is air conditioned by Underfloor system. To reduce HVAC plant capacity, Thermal storage - Chilled water by Indirect interface system have been considered.
   The influence of following parameters like UFAD (Underfloor air distribution system), Facade glazing factor like "U" (Overall Heat Transfer co efficient), SHGF (solar Heat gain factor), Thermal Energy Storage (TES) for Partial loading, ERU (Energy Recovery Unit) etc. will be discussed and the contribution as percentage of energy saving will be presented.
   An approx 10-15 % energy have been saved.
UT WOS:000460215500028
ER

PT J
AU Mohammadnia, A
   Asadi, A
AF Mohammadnia, Ali
   Asadi, Amin
TI A hybrid solid oxide fuel cell-gas turbine fed by the motive steam of a
   multi-effects desalination-thermo vapor compressor system
DE Solid oxide fuel cell; Multi-effects desalination; Energy and exergy
   analysis; Thermal desalination
ID MED-TVC PLANT; MULTIOBJECTIVE OPTIMIZATION; THERMODYNAMIC ANALYSIS;
   PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS; AREA RATIO; SOFC; GT; SIMULATION; EXERGY; DRIVEN
AB It is known that the production of electrical power and water is a challenging issue. In this article, the feasibility study of a new configuration of a solid oxide fuel cell-gas turbine coupled with a multi-effect desalination thermo vapor compressor is performed. In this method, the generated steam by a heat recovery steam generator is utilized directly to a solid oxide fuel cell. This condition causes a water pump protrudes from the solid oxide fuel cell cycle, and the internal pressure of the heat recovery steam generator is kept equal to the solid oxide fuel cell pressure. In the proposed model, the effects of some design parameters such as the inlet temperature of the solid oxide fuel cell, cycle pressure, fuel utilization factor, steam to methane ratio on electrical power and water generation of the system have been theoretically investigated. The mathematical model of the system is created in Engineering Equation Solver software. The two main parts of the system have been validated with the available literature. The results showed that while increasing the pressure ratio of air and fuel compressors leads to decreasing the mass flow rate of the distilled water, the gain output ratio of the desalination system increases. Moreover, in the proposed model, capital cost of the system and the corresponding cost per unit of time are decreased by 224,844 USD and 6.37%, respectively.
UT WOS:000537788600019
ER

PT J
AU Zhang, DY
   Shen, B
   Li, P
   Wang, PC
   Sheng, Y
   Bing, YQ
AF Zhang, Dongyu
   Shen, Biao
   Li, Peng
   Wang, Pengcheng
   Sheng, Yang
   Bing, Yuqi
TI MTMF-Grid: A multi-task multi-modal fusion model for operational
   forecasting and decision support in power grids
ID SYSTEM
AB Power grid strategic emerging business investment features multi-objective coupling and multi-source heterogeneous data. It requires simultaneous completion of regression and classification tasks, making traditional single-task or single-modal assessment methods inadequate for precise decision-making. This study proposes a multi-task multi-modal fusion model (MTMF-Grid) for operational forecasting and decision support in strategic emerging power grid investments. MTMF-Grid leverages operational data proxies to support investment decision-making, rather than directly predicting financial returns. MTMF-Grid adopts a modular architecture with three core mechanisms: a task-adaptive Transformer to balance general and task-specific feature expression, a Cross-Fusion Gating Mechanism (CFGM) for dynamic multi-modal fusion and robustness to modal missing scenarios, and a loss variance-based mechanism to dynamically adjust task weights and alleviate gradient conflicts. Experiments on SEWA (Sharjah Electricity and Water Authority dataset) and OPSD (Open Power System Data) datasets show MTMF-Grid outperforms mainstream baseline models. It achieves 3.06% MAPE (Mean Absolute Percentage Error) for hourly electricity price prediction, 0.915 accuracy for load fluctuation risk classification. This study presents a comprehensive framework for supporting strategic decision-making in power grid investment through operational forecasting and multi-modal data integration.
UT WOS:001712928100028
ER

PT J
AU Kwan, TH
   Shen, Y
   Pei, G
AF Kwan, T. H.
   Shen, Y.
   Pei, G.
TI Recycling fuel cell waste heat to the thermoelectric cooler for enhanced
   combined heat, power and water production
DE Fuel cell; Humid air modeling; Thermoelectric heating; Waste heat
   recovery; Water recovery
AB The energy efficiency of fuel cell-based cogeneration systems is limited by the stack?s natural characteristics, and fuel cell water recovery is an energy-consuming process. Here, an alternative system concept is proposed, which recycles the fuel cell?s waste heat to the thermoelectric heater?s cold side to increase its temperature. Hence, the temperature difference across the thermoelectric cooler drops to increases the coefficient of performance for water heating. Furthermore, by cooling the fuel cell?s flue gas, by-product liquid water recovery is achieved. A system-level mathematical model is developed to combine the 1 kW fuel cell stack and thermoelectric cooler/heater model, which analyzes the hybrid system?s performance for efficiently generating power, heat, and drinking water. During the analysis, the hot side temperature, thermoelectric cooler size, and humification rate have been parametrically swept. Results show that adopting thermoelectric modules of 12 or more and lowering the airflow rate to 0.02 kg/s enabled energy efficiencies of up to 1.1 under an ambient 283.15 K and reference 323.15 K temperature heat transfer conditions. Also, up to 1.5 kg/h of liquid water could be recovered if the water heating temperature is changed to 308.15 K. ? 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000637964600012
ER

PT J
AU Brunner, LG
   Peer, RAM
   Zorn, C
   Paulik, R
   Logan, TM
AF Brunner, L. G.
   Peer, R. A. M.
   Zorn, C.
   Paulik, R.
   Logan, T. M.
TI Understanding cascading risks through real-world interdependent urban
   infrastructure
DE Cascading failures; Interdependent infrastructure; Risk analysis;
   Critical infrastructure; Urban infrastructure; Resilience; Network
   modeling
ID RESILIENCE; SYSTEMS; FRAMEWORK; FAILURE; IMPACTS
AB The prevalence of cascading failures is growing as infrastructure becomes more interdependent and climate change exacerbates more extreme hazards. After such events, the general focus is on the magnitude of direct damage or loss; it is less understood how events trigger failures throughout other infrastructure. In this work, we present a methodology to model direct and indirect impacts from an event for a multi-system network, including interconnected infrastructure and end users. We perform a case study of New Zealand's second largest city, Christchurch, investigating electricity, water supply, and wastewater networks following a range of coastal flooding events and climate change scenarios. For a 10-year average recurrence interval event given no sea-level rise, there is a 216% increase from directly impacted end users to the total number of end users that have lost at least one utility. For the same scenario, this metric is 71%, 129%, and 131% for end users who have lost electricity, water, and wastewater, respectively. The results show a larger estimate of impact on residents and a more geospatially-varied loss of service. This methodology provides insight for utility operators, emergency response, and communities on node criticality, areas of impact, and resource requirements after an event occurs.
UT WOS:001086031700001
ER

PT C
AU Kasharin, DV
AF Kasharin, D., V
GP IEEE
TI Using Biopositive Constructions made of Composite Materials in Water and
   Electricity Supply for Recreational Facilities
DE biopositive constructions; composite materials small streams;
   water-retaining structures; engineering protection; shells; composite
   materials; nano filtration system; shell structures
AB The article is devoted to the questions of scientific substantiation and experimental research of parameters of biopositive structures from composite materials for water and energy supply for the decentralized small recreational objects. Biopositive structures include water intake structures and waterways made of composite materials with engineering protection structures and fastening along its route. The experimental studies of the physical model of the diversion water conduit were carried out on a variable-slope hydraulic tray. The method of telemetry was used to determine the stress-strain state of the water conduit shell from a composite material at various water flow rates. Based on the results of measuring the stress-strain state, the maximum stresses in the shell of the diversion water conduit are determined, which make it possible to clarify the necessary strength characteristics of the composite material and the conditions for its fixation. To ensure the laying of the water conduit through areas of complex relief, a device of soil-reinforced structures is envisaged. These structures ensure the fastening of the water channel. Since it is necessary to ensure the reliability of the functioning of soil-reinforced structures, statistical processing of the previously conducted experimental studies of deformations of these structures is performed. Based on the results of experimental studies, an empirical dependence was obtained to determine the reliability of the functioning of the soil-reinforced structure for securing the shell water conduit from composite materials.
UT WOS:000414282400168
ER

PT J
AU Chatterjee, C
   Mozumder, P
AF Chatterjee, Chiradip
   Mozumder, Pallab
TI Hurricane Wilma, utility disruption, and household wellbeing
DE Hurricane; Critical infrastructure; Utility disruption; Household
   wellbeing; Risk mitigation
ID NATURAL DISASTERS; IMPACTS
AB Hurricanes with drenching rains and gusty winds bring down power lines and other critical infrastructures, and grind a region's economy to a halt. Consequently, the disruption of public utility services (e.g., water supply, electricity and telephone) and the suspension of local economic activities (e.g., transportation and local businesses) result in significant losses for households' wellbeing. On the other hand, hurricane preparation, for example mitigation measures targeted to reduce wind related damages (e.g., shutters, hurricane resistant windows and doors) and alternative resources for dealing with emergency situations (e.g., electric generator and hurricane supplies) could help reduce the post-disaster impacts. Based on data collected through a household survey right after Hurricane Wilma (2005), we have analyzed the survey responses using ordered logistic estimation approach and have found the evidence of effectiveness of household-level hurricane preparations. We have found that interruptions in electricity and water supply are the major drivers behind the reported losses of households' wellbeing. Results also show evidence of the benefit of hurricane shutters and generators in reducing the adverse impacts of Hurricane Wilma in South Florida. Our findings imply that significant investment in rapid restoration of public utility services following a natural disaster is instrumental in South Florida and beyond. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000368929400008
ER

PT J
AU Kumar, S
   Murugesan, K
AF Kumar, Satish
   Murugesan, Krishnan
TI Experimental Study of Heat Extraction and Soil Recovery During Space
   Heating Application Using Ground Source Heat Pump System
DE heat extraction; soil recovery; series-parallel double U-tube borehole
   heat exchanger; coefficient of performance (COP); peak and moderate
   winter seasons; energy efficiency; energy systems; heat exchangers; heat
   recovery
ID THERMAL PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS; EXCHANGERS; ENERGY; SIMULATION
AB The present research paper reports experimental results on the coupled phenomena of heat extraction and heat recovery by a double U-tube borehole heat exchanger (BHE) and its thermal performance for space heating application using a ground source heat pump (GSHP) system. Experiments were performed on a 5-ton cooling capacity GSHP system installed at Roorkee located in the northern part of India, during peak and moderate winter seasons. The heat interaction by the GSHP system with the ground is achieved by five double U-tube BHEs and one single U-tube BHE of 120 m depth each. Experimental trials were conducted for parallel and series flow of heat transfer fluid (water) in the BHE. Temperature of water and power consumption by the GSHP was monitored continuously during heat extraction for 12 h and heat recovery of soil as well. For the peak winter season, during heat extraction, a 5 degrees C temperature rise was observed in BHE water for series connection, which is about 10% higher than that of the parallel case. Maximum heat extraction of 14.8 kW was obtained for the series connection, which is 20% higher than the parallel one, thus resulting in a 20% higher value of the overall coefficient of performance (COP) of the system for series mode compared to the parallel mode operation during the peak winter season. However, the ground near the BHE has taken lesser time for heat recovery in parallel mode compared to the series mode.
UT WOS:000862035600005
ER

PT J
AU Prokopakis, GJ
   Maroulis, ZB
AF Prokopakis, GJ
   Maroulis, ZB
TI Real-time management and optimisation of industrial utilities systems
AB A system for real-time management and optimisation of industrial utilities facilities is presented. The system, given the demand from the process (steam of various levels, power), optimally allocates the load to the available utilities equipment (boilers, turbines, etc.) and external sources (national power grid). The utilities plant is considered to consist of three interacting sub-systems: fuel, power, water. The system is based on a modelling framework where operational characteristics of the utilities equipment are decomposed from nominal design, so that the computational efficiency is increased without loss in rigor. Discontinuities are removed with the introduction of appropriate transition functions and the complete problem is formulated in a non-linear programming framework. An industrial scale benchmark problem is used to test the approach. The tests demonstrate the efficiency and robustness of the system.
UT WOS:A1996UR30900104
ER

PT J
AU Maleki, A
   Pourfayaz, F
   Ahmadi, MH
AF Maleki, Akbar
   Pourfayaz, Fathollah
   Ahmadi, Mohammad Hossein
TI Design of a cost-effective wind/photovoltaic/hydrogen energy system for
   supplying a desalination unit by a heuristic approach
DE Hybrid renewable energy system; Fuel cell/electrolyser storage system;
   Desalination unit; Optimization
ID REVERSE-OSMOSIS DESALINATION; HYBRID POWER-SYSTEM; OF-THE-ART; RENEWABLE
   ENERGY; EVOLUTIONARY ALGORITHMS; WATER-PURIFICATION; SWARM OPTIMIZATION;
   REMOTE AREAS; WIND ENERGY; FEASIBILITY
AB The techno-economic assessment, optimization, and sizing of grid independent renewable energy systems affects not only the likelihood of deployment but also their reliability to supply potable water and electricity where needed. Despite many investigations on hybrid renewable energy systems (photovoltaic/wind), the reverse-osmosis desalination unit powered by solar and wind electricity production systems with hydrogen energy storage, and effects of integrating water desalination alongside meeting load demand, is rarely found. In this paper, a hybrid photovoltaic/wind/hydrogen/reverse osmosis desalination system is modeled and designed for increasing the fresh water availability and to meet the load demand to a stand-alone region in Iran. The configuration of the proposed hybrid system is optimally determined with respect to two optimization criteria, the life cycle cost of the economic evaluation and the loss of power supply probability concept for the reliability. For this aim, an efficient metaheuristic technique based on artificial bee swarm optimization is used. From the results it is seen that at a maximum loss of power supply probability set to 0-10% the photovoltaic/hydrogen/reverse osmosis desalination is the most cost-effective energy system and photovoltaic/wind/hydrogen/reverse osmosis desalination and wind/hydrogen/reverse osmosis desalination systems are in the other ranks. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000389388900068
ER

PT J
AU Shakib, SE
   Hosseini, SR
   Amidpour, M
   Aghanajafi, C
AF Shakib, Seyed Ehsan
   Hosseini, Seyed Reza
   Amidpour, Majid
   Aghanajafi, Cyrus
TI Multi-objective optimization of a cogeneration plant for supplying given
   amount of power and fresh water
DE Gas turbine cycle; Multi-effect evaporation desalination; Thermoeconomic
   analysis; Optimization; Multi-objective genetic algorithm
ID COMPRESSION DESALINATION SYSTEMS; INJECTED GAS-TURBINE; THERMOECONOMIC
   ANALYSIS; PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS; OPTIMAL-DESIGN; RELIABILITY; GENERATION;
   SIMULATION; EXERGY; UNIT
AB Today, the required energy of thermal desalination is widely supplied by power generation cycles as dual-purpose plants. One of the most considerable issues in combining gas turbine cycle (GT) with thermal desalination is how the operating parameters of GT affect technical and economic aspects of power and water production. Therefore, some researchers have studied dual-purpose plants from the thermodynamic point of view without economic or thermoeconomic considerations. According to the lack of studies in this area, in this paper, a dual-purpose plant is modeled which consisted of a GT with and without an air preheater (APH), heat recovery steam generator (HRSG) and multi-effect evaporation thermal vapor compression desalination (METVC). The system is supposed to supply 40 MW of power and 14,000 m(3)/day of fresh water for an industrial plant near the seashore in the south of Iran. After the simulation stage, a thermoeconomic analysis is performed and, then, a heuristic optimization algorithm, namely, multi-objective genetic algorithm (MOGA) is applied in order to achieve the optimal design. Eventually, it could be concluded that, by applying the optimization approach and using APH, the total cost of products decreases by 19% while the exergy efficiency of the combined cycle increases by 19%. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000300648100029
ER

PT J
AU Huang, X
   Wang, J
   Huang, T
   Peng, H
   Song, XX
   Cheng, SX
AF Huang, Xing
   Wang, Jun
   Huang, Tao
   Peng, Hong
   Song, Xiaoxiao
   Cheng, Sixiong
TI An optimal operation method of cascade hydro-PV-pumped storage
   generation system based on multi-objective stochastic numerical P
   systems
AB To take full advantage of the complementary characteristics of various renewable energy sources, hybrid generation systems (HGSs) are used to accommodate the increased variability and uncertainty. In southwest China, there are many small cascade hydropower stations (CHSs) and PV power stations, which have spatial and temporal correlation characteristics and complementary characteristics. Pumped-storage units are considered as ideal large-scale energy storage elements for HGSs due to their fast response and long life. The purpose of this study is to increase the system reliability and water power utilization rate and maximize the economic benefits of a cascade hydro-PV-pumped storage (CH-PV-PS) generation system. Considering the reliability, economy, and water power utilization rate of the system, the CH-PV-PS system model with multiple objectives and multiple constraints is established. Then, a multi-objective stochastic numerical P system (MOSNP) is proposed. The external storage set and correction method in the MOSNP algorithm are introduced to ensure the diversity of the solution and improve the efficiency of the algorithm. The CH-PV-PS system is introduced in Sichuan Province, Southwest China. The simulation results show that (1) the MOSNP method can obtain robust and effective optimization results for the hybrid system; (2) the use of pumped storage units has increased the daily economy by 1018 CNY, and the total fluctuation of CHSs has been reduced by 29.3%, which makes the hybrid system safer and more economical; and (3) the uncertainty of PV and runoff will lead to frequent dispatching of CHSs, thus reducing the economic benefits of the system.
UT WOS:000629734100001
ER

PT C
AU Bhattacharjee, S
   Lidelöw, S
   Schade, J
AF Bhattacharjee, Shimantika
   Lidelow, Sofia
   Schade, Jutta
BE Johansson, D
   Bagge, H
   Wahlstrom, A
TI Performance Evaluation of a Passive House in Sub-arctic Climate
DE Passive house; Sub-arctic climate; Performance evaluation; Energy
   efficiency; Indoor temperature
AB As the operational energy use in buildings contributes highly to the total energy used and greenhouse gases emitted in the cold climate regions of Europe, buildings which are more energy-efficient and less carbon-intensive during operation are key to meet sustainability objectives in these regions. Yet, research shows that the practice of passive or low-energy buildings in the sub-arctic climate of northern Sweden is comparatively less than in the southern region. Moreover, previous studies did not explicitly examine the performance of low energy buildings in sub-arctic climate in relation to established building energy efficiency standards. Consequently, knowledge regarding the energy performance of low-energy buildings in such climate is limited. Therefore, the aim is to evaluate the performance, in terms of indoor temperature and energy use for heating, domestic hot water and electricity of a new-built passive house titled "Sjunde Huset" in the sub-arctic town of Kiruna. It is Sweden's northernmost house designed to fulfil the Swedish passive-house criteria of a maximum heat loss factor of 17 W/m(2) and a maximum annual energy use of 63 kWh/m(2). The implemented passive design strategies include a highly insulated, compact and airtight building envelope with a vestibule, mechanical ventilation with heat recovery and renewable energy production through photovoltaic solar cells. The house is connected to district heating and is equipped with energy-efficient appliances to allow low occupant energy use. Ongoing performance evaluation is based on building simulation and measurements of energy and temperature in different zones of the building. Energy performance deviations between occupied and non-occupied zones are explored through internal heat gain evaluations. The indoor temperature is also evaluated to assess the temperature variations throughout the year. The ongoing research further evaluate a comparative simulated and measured energy analysis of heating, hot water and electricity based on both the international passive house standard and the Swedish passive house criteria "Feby 12".
UT WOS:000675599300013
ER

PT J
AU Das, A
   Sen, A
   Qiao, CM
   Ghani, N
   Mitton, N
AF Das, Arun
   Sen, Arunabha
   Qiao, Chunming
   Ghani, Nasir
   Mitton, Nathalie
TI RAPTOR: a network tool for mitigating the impact of spatially correlated
   failures in infrastructure networks
DE Spatially correlated faults; Region-based faults; Geographically
   correlated faults; Fault-tolerant network design; Network robustness and
   resilience; Network tool
AB Current practices of fault-tolerant network design ignore the fact that most network infrastructure faults are localized or spatially correlated (i.e., confined to geographic regions). Network operators require new tools to mitigate the impact of such region-based faults on their infrastructures. Utilizing the support from the U.S. Department of Defense, and by consolidating a wide range of theories and solutions developed in the last few years, the authors of this paper have developed Raptor, an advanced Network Planning and Management Tool that facilitates the design and provisioning of robust and resilient networks. The tool provides multi-faceted network design, evaluation, and simulation capabilities for network planners. Future extensions of the tool currently being worked upon not only expand the tool's capabilities, but also extend these capabilities to heterogeneous interdependent networks such as communication, power, water, and satellite networks.
UT WOS:000424244500011
ER

PT J
AU Jacobson, MZ
   Delucchi, MA
   Cameron, MA
   Frew, BA
AF Jacobson, Mark Z.
   Delucchi, Mark A.
   Cameron, Mary A.
   Frew, Bethany A.
TI Low-cost solution to the grid reliability problem with 100% penetration
   of intermittent wind, water, and solar for all purposes
DE energy security; climate change; grid stability; renewable energy;
   energy cost
ID RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY; ENERGY; POWER; SYSTEM; SCENARIOS; STORAGE;
   PERFORMANCE; FUTURE
AB This study addresses the greatest concern facing the large-scale integration of wind, water, and solar (WWS) into a power grid: the high cost of avoiding load loss caused by WWS variability and uncertainty. It uses a new grid integration model and finds low-cost, no-load-loss, nonunique solutions to this problem on electrification of all US energy sectors (electricity, transportation, heating/cooling, and industry) while accounting for wind and solar time series data from a 3D global weather model that simulates extreme events and competition among wind turbines for available kinetic energy. Solutions are obtained by prioritizing storage for heat (in soil and water); cold (in ice and water); and electricity (in phase-change materials, pumped hydro, hydropower, and hydrogen), and using demand response. No natural gas, biofuels, nuclear power, or stationary batteries are needed. The resulting 2050-2055 US electricity social cost for a full system is much less than for fossil fuels. These results hold for many conditions, suggesting that low-cost, reliable 100% WWS systems should work many places worldwide.
UT WOS:000365989800034
ER

PT J
AU Barros, EG
   Salvino, LR
   Bezerra, SDM
   Salvino, MM
   Gomes, HP
AF Barros Filho, Emanuel Guerra
   Salvino, Lais Regis
   Marques Bezerra, Saulo de Tarso
   Salvino, Moises Menezes
   Gomes, Heber Pimentel
TI Intelligent system for control of water distribution networks
DE artificial neural network; energy and hydraulic efficiency; pumping
   systems; water supply
ID ARTIFICIAL NEURAL-NETWORK; PUMPING STATIONS; ENERGY; OPTIMIZATION;
   PRESSURE; LEAKAGE; EFFICIENCY; OPERATION; MODEL
AB The objective of this research study was the development of an intelligent system based on artificial neural networks for water distribution networks that operate with parallel pumps. The purpose of the system is to automate the process and to define the operating state of the electric motors (on, off or with partial rotation speed). The intelligent system developed is generic, which allows the application of its control structure in similar processes, and it was applied in an experimental setup that simulates a real water supply system. The performance of the network was tested experimentally under different operating conditions, including in the presence of disturbances. The settling time was, in all experiments, less than 30 seconds, the tests did not show overshoot and the maximum error was 2.9%. Results showed excellent performance in terms of pressure regulation, and it is hoped that the controller can be successfully implemented in real water distribution systems, in order to reduce water and electricity consumption, decrease maintenance costs and increase the reliability of operating procedures.
UT WOS:000437352400013
ER

PT J
AU Kiehbadroudinezhad, M
   Merabet, A
   Hosseinzadeh-Bandbafha, H
AF Kiehbadroudinezhad, Mohammadali
   Merabet, Adel
   Hosseinzadeh-Bandbafha, Homa
TI Optimization of Wind Energy Battery Storage Microgrid by Division
   Algorithm Considering Cumulative Exergy Demand for Power-Water
   Cogeneration
DE wind energy; cumulative exergy demand; reliability; optimization;
   division algorithm; desalination
ID LI-ION BATTERIES; DESALINATION SYSTEM; MULTIOBJECTIVE OPTIMIZATION;
   OPTIMAL-DESIGN; CYCLE COST; HYBRID; POLYETHYLENE; IMPACT; DRIVEN
AB This study investigates the use of division algorithms to optimize the size of a desalination system integrated with a microgrid based on a wind turbine plant and the battery storage to supply freshwater based on cost, reliability, and energy losses. Cumulative exergy demand is used to identify and minimize the energy losses in the optimized system. Division algorithms are used to overcome the drawback of low convergence speed encountered by the well-known method genetic algorithm. The findings indicated that there is a positive relationship between cost, cumulative exergy, and reliability. More specifically, when the loss of power supply probability is 10%, compared to when it is 0%, the total cumulative exergy demand and total life cycle cost are reduced by 34.76% when the battery is full and 45.44% when the battery is empty and there is a 44.43% decrease in total life cycle cost, respectively. However, the more reliable system, the less exergy is lost during the production of 1 m(3) freshwater by desalination integrated into wind turbine plant.
UT WOS:000670999200001
ER

PT J
AU Musharavati, F
   Khanmohammadi, S
   Pakseresht, A
   Khanmohammadi, S
AF Musharavati, Farayi
   Khanmohammadi, Shoaib
   Pakseresht, Amirhossein
   Khanmohammadi, Saber
TI Waste heat recovery in an intercooled gas turbine system:
   Exergo-economic analysis, triple objective optimization, and optimum
   state selection
DE Exergo-economic; Thermoelectric; Multi-criteria optimization; Waste
   recovery
ID ORGANIC RANKINE; COMBINED-CYCLE; THERMODYNAMIC ANALYSIS; THERMOELECTRIC
   GENERATOR; POWER-GENERATION; FUEL-CELL; KALINA; ORC; REFRIGERATION;
   PERFORMANCE
AB The development of heat and power generation systems has a major step towards sustainable development, reducing fossil energy consumption and reducing environmental pollution. Integrated energy systems are considered widely due to their high efficiency. In the present paper, an intercooled gas turbine system is developed to achieve a system with high thermal efficiency as well as better economic performance and cleaner production. The main goals of the suggested system is improvement of thermodynamic and exergo-economic performance beside multi-criteria optimization, which lead to improve the system sustainability. The intercooled gas turbine in the current work integrated with hot water system and thermoelectric generator unit to develop an advanced combined heat and power system. A comprehensive energy, exergy, and exergo-economic analyses are employed to price assessment of the new introduced system. A comparative analysis with conventional intercooled gas turbine system is presented. The results of thermodynamic modeling indicate that an improvement about 613.3 kW, 8.21 kW, and 12.3 kW can be obtained in the gas turbine, Kalina cycle, and regenerative organic Rankine cycle subsystems. The results of energy and exergy analysis show that the values of both energy and exergy efficiencies for all subsystems experience increment in the new introduced. Parametric analysis based on thermodynamic and exergo-economic criteria is done and a triple objective optimization conducted to determine the best system configurations. The Technique for Order of Preference by Similarity to Ideal Solution is employed to choose the final optimal state of the system. The result of optimum selection among non-dominant solutions suggested by Pareto points indicates that the energy efficiency, total exergy destruction rate and electricity cost rate are 53.91%, 2392.01 kW, and 52.29 $/h. (c) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000613139700025
ER

PT J
AU Kilic, H
AF Kilic, Heybet
TI Hierarchical economic model predictive control of coupled SWRO-PEM
   hydrogen production systems
DE Seawater reverse osmosis (SWRO); Proton exchange membrane (PEM)
   electrolyzer; Predictive control; Offshore wind hydrogen production
ID WATER ELECTROLYSIS; ENERGY; PERFORMANCE; DESALINATION; DESIGN
AB The integration of renewable energy with hydrogen production requires coordinated management of power, water, and thermal constraints, particularly in offshore environments where freshwater availability is limited. This paper presents a comprehensive dynamic modeling and control framework for a coupled seawater reverse osmosis (SWRO) and proton exchange membrane (PEM) electrolyzer system powered by offshore wind energy. Physics-based models are developed to capture the electrochemical, thermal, and hydration dynamics of the PEM electrolyzer alongside the solution-diffusion transport behavior of the SWRO unit. These models are embedded within a hierarchical Economic Model Predictive Control (EMPC) strategy that jointly optimizes electrolyzer current, desalination pressure, and recovery ratio to maximize renewable energy utilization while ensuring water quality compliance, tank security, and stack thermal protection. The proposed control strategy is validated through both offline simulations and real-time execution on an OPAL-RT digital simulator, enabling high-fidelity assessment under realistic control execution and numerical integration constraints. Case studies under fluctuating renewable power, variable salinity, and thermal stress demonstrate stable hydrogen production (similar to 40 Nm3/h), secure buffer operation, and permeate quality consistently maintained below 5 mg/L. The proposed framework is particularly relevant for South Africa and other Southern African Development Community (SADC) countries, where abundant offshore wind resources coexist with high grid carbon intensity and increasing freshwater scarcity. Overall, the results confirm the robustness and practical implementability of the proposed EMPC framework and highlight its suitability for offshore wind-driven hydrogen production systems.
UT WOS:001713107600001
ER

PT J
AU Hanafizadeh, P
   Siahkalroudi, MM
   Taklifi, A
   Akhavan-Behabadi, MA
AF Hanafizadeh, Pedram
   Siahkalroudi, Mojtaba Mirzakhani
   Taklifi, Alireza
   Akhavan-Behabadi, Mohammad Ali
TI Thermo-economic analysis of combined power and water production in Iran
   by multi effect desalination method
DE Thermo-economic analysis; Gas turbine configuration; Multi-effect
   desalination; TRR method
ID NUCLEAR HEATING REACTOR; PLANT; OPTIMIZATION; DISTILLATION; SIMULATION
AB Current study reports thermo-economic evaluation of various configurations of combined electricity and potable water production systems. All of these systems use single pressure heat recovery steam generators and multi-effect seawater desalination systems coupled to single cycle gas turbine power plants. These combined power and water production plants are located in the south of Iran near salt water of the Persian Gulf. The aim of this work is to find the most appropriate combination of gas turbines with different capacities (4, 10, 25MW) to produce 18,000m(3)/d fresh water. In this regard, a complete model of the system, including thermodynamics, heat transfer, and economic models as well as pressure loss calculations are developed. In this model, steady state mass and energy conservation equations are considered for each component of every configuration as a control volume. The results from this thermo-economic analysis of whole cycle are reported as the levelized cost of electricity, desalination water cost, and internal rate of return for investment. The capital, operation, and fuel costs were assumed due to available data for these specific systems and market of Iran.
UT WOS:000370972300012
ER

PT J
AU Boukelia, TE
AF Boukelia, T. E.
TI Minimizing water consumption in concentrating solar power (CSP) plants
   through integrated organic Rankine cycle waste heat recovery
DE Concentrating solar power; Cooling performance; Dispatch capacity;
   Gemasolar; Waste heat recovery system; Water consumption
ID DRY COOLING-TOWER; THERMOECONOMIC OPTIMIZATION; THERMODYNAMIC
   PERFORMANCE; SIMULATION; DESIGN; SYSTEM; COSTS
AB Concentrating solar power (CSP) installations for large-scale power generation face challenges related to the low yield and high-water consumption to ensure the cooling process, which make them less competitive compared to conventional thermal power plant. To solve these two issues, a reference CSP plant with an output of 19.9 MW is retrofitted by integrating a waste heat recovery system (WHRS) based on an organic Rankine cycle (ORC) to raise the dispatchability of the installation and reduce both water and power consumption in its cooling tower. The obtained results show that by integrating this new solution, the new plant achieved a 15.30% increase in generated electricity, a 15.13% improvement in global efficiency, and 15.35% increase in capacity factor, while reducing wasted heat by 16.90%, water consumption by 23.37%, and cooling power demand by 24.63% compared to the Gemasolar reference plant. Furthermore, this novel solution enhances the long-term sustainability of CSP plants, as evidenced by a reduction in water consumption of nearly 1.04 Mm3 at the Gemasolar plant over its 30 years old-life cycle.
UT WOS:001770920800001
ER

PT J
AU Shi, QX
   Yan, YL
   Liu, WX
   Zeng, B
   Wang, ZN
   Li, FX
AF Shi, Qingxin
   Yan, Yilu
   Liu, Wenxia
   Zeng, Bo
   Wang, Zhuning
   Li, Fangxing
TI Resilience Assessment of Urban Power Network Considering Multi-Stage
   Electrical-Water Fault Propagation
DE Water resources; Resilience; Substations; Pipelines; Water pumps;
   Indexes; High-voltage techniques; Resilience assessment; urban power
   network; water distribution network; fault propagation; extreme event
ID DISTRIBUTION-SYSTEMS; UNCERTAINTY
AB Multi-voltage-level urban power network (UPN) is the basis for other infrastructure networks, especially water distribution network (WDN). Compared with other networks, UPN is more vulnerable to extreme events, including extreme weather events and deliberate attacks. The affection of UPN fault on WDN displays complex multi-stage characteristics. This paper first proposes a comprehensive tri-stage model of electrical-water fault propagation, including the electrical-water network connection model, the reduced-order hydraulic network model, and the water supply model of customers. Second, a scenario selection method and two resilience assessment indices are proposed. The indices measure the resistive capability of UPN considering the fault propagation effect. Finally, the proposed model and assessment method are verified by a simplified real-world urban power and water network based on the selected typical fault scenarios. The resilience assessment method helps electrical utilities to identify critical components of UPN and to make optimal decisions for long-term component hardening and short-term post-disaster restoration.
UT WOS:001512570800032
ER

PT C
AU Cox, A
   Roy, S
   Warnick, S
AF Cox, Ann
   Roy, Sandip
   Warnick, Sean
GP IEEE
TI A Science of System Security
AB As the internet becomes the information-technology backbone for more and more operations, including critical infrastructures such as water and power systems, the security problems introduced by linking such operations to the internet become more of a concern. Various communities have considered these problems and approached solutions from a variety of perspectives. In this paper, we consider the contributions we believe control theory can make towards developing tools for analyzing whole system security, that is, security of a system that may include its physical and human elements as well as its cyber components. In particular, we contrast notions of security focused on protecting information, and thus concerned primarily with delivering the right information to the right people (and no one else), with a different perspective on system security focused on protecting system functionality, which is concerned primarily with system robustness to particular attacks (and may not be concerned with privacy of communications).
UT WOS:000370073800079
ER

PT J
AU Feng, SY
   Wang, Y
   Wang, BY
   Wang, L
   Yang, MH
   Feng, LX
   Li, H
   Qi, ST
   Jia, AK
   Zhao, YF
   Chen, K
   Xia, W
AF Feng, Shuyue
   Wang, Yao
   Wang, Bingyan
   Wang, Li
   Yang, Mohan
   Feng, Lixin
   Li, Heng
   Qi, Shaotian
   Jia, Ankang
   Zhao, Yanfang
   Chen, Kun
   Xia, Wei
TI Hollow kapok fiber-enabled photothermal aerogel with water supply and
   salt back-diffusion for solar desalination and thermoelectric generation
DE Solar-driven interfacial evaporation; Hollow kapok fiber; Photothermal
   aerogel; Capillary water supply; Salt back-diffusion; Thermoelectric
   generation
AB Solar-driven interfacial evaporation is promising for decentralized desalination, but continuous water supply, salt resistance, and solar energy utilization under high-salinity conditions remain challenging. Herein, a lightweight hollow kapok fiber-enabled photothermal aerogel (KCPA) was fabricated via a facile crosslinking-freezedrying strategy for salt-resistant evaporation and auxiliary thermoelectric generation. The optimized KCPA0.5,1 possesses an interconnected hollow-fiber-reinforced porous network, integrating broadband light absorption, capillary water delivery, hydrated water-state regulation, and mechanical robustness. The PVA/kapok fiber hydrated network increases the intermediate-water fraction and reduces evaporation enthalpy, while hollowfiber-assisted water replenishment and concentration-gradient-driven salt back-diffusion suppress salt accumulation through a structure-hydration-diffusion coupled mechanism. Consequently, KCPA0.5,1 achieves an evaporation rate of 3.29 kg m- 2 h-1 with 93.2% efficiency under 1 sun, and maintains 2.98 and 2.44 kg m- 2 h-1 in 3.5 wt% and 27 wt% NaCl solutions, respectively. Moreover, KCPA0.5,1 converts localized photothermal heat into electrical output through thermoelectric coupling, demonstrating solar-driven water-electricity co-generation. Outdoor desalination and contaminated-water purification further confirm its practical applicability.
UT WOS:001848460700001
ER

PT J
AU Mokaramian, E
   Shayeghi, H
   Sedaghati, F
   Safari, A
AF Mokaramian, Elham
   Shayeghi, Hossein
   Sedaghati, Farzad
   Safari, Amin
TI Four-Objective Optimal Scheduling of Energy Hub Using a Novel Energy
   Storage, Considering Reliability and Risk Indices
DE Energy hub; Demand response program; Pico hydel energy storage;
   Conditional value at risk; Second-order stochastic dominance;
   Uncertainty; wind turbine
ID VIRTUAL POWER-PLANT; OPTIMIZATION MODEL; UNCERTAINTIES; MANAGEMENT;
   SYSTEM
AB Energy hub as a novel model which has provided more efficiency, flexibility, and reliability. Also, due to using different multi carriers as renewable and non-renewable sources and storage devices in energy hubs, optimal operation scheduling becomes more challenging. In this paper, the day-ahead scheduling of energy hub is studied in the presence of wind turbine, electrical, thermal, and a novel water-based storage called Pico hydel energy storage. A useful method using the Monte-Carlo and k-mines clustering method is developed to estimate the uncertainty associated with wind speed, load, and market price. On the other hand, Conditional Value at Risk and Second-Order Stochastic Dominance (SSD) method are applied as a risk-averse method. To find the best operation performance of energy hub, multiple objectives consist of economic, emission pollution, electrical, and load profile deviation are defined. As well, the demand response program for gas, electricity, water, and thermal are implemented to improve the energy hub performance. Mixed-integer non-linear program formulation for the day-ahead scheduling of energy hub has been solved by executing CPLEX solver of GAMS optimization software in five different cases. Simulation results show that the hub's operation cost and emission reduce up to 4.8% and 5.6% by implementing four objective functions in the presence of the Pico hydel energy storage and demand response programing.
UT WOS:000674588300005
ER

PT J
AU Chamberland, J
   Bouyer, A
   Benoit, S
   Provault, C
   Bérub, A
   Doyen, A
   Pouliot, Y
AF Chamberland, Julien
   Bouyer, Amandine
   Benoit, Scott
   Provault, Celine
   Berub, Amelie
   Doyen, Alain
   Pouliot, Yves
TI Efficiency assessment of water reclamation processes in milk protein
   concentrate manufacturing plants: A predictive analysis
DE Efficiency; Dairy processing; Milk protein concentrate; Reverse osmosis;
   Water reclamation; Predictive analysis
ID REVERSE-OSMOSIS; DAIRY-INDUSTRY; WASTE-WATER; SKIM MILK; NANOFILTRATION;
   MEMBRANES; RECOVERY; REUSE; ULTRAFILTRATION; DIAFILTRATION
AB Milk protein concentrates (MPC) are increasingly used as protein fortifiers in food formulations, as a means to increase cheese yield, and in the manufacture of Greek-style yogurt. However, manufacturing of MPC requires significant volumes of input water and generates polluting by-products such as permeates and/or diafiltrates. Reverse osmosis was suggested to reduce the impact of both issues by reclaiming water from dairy fluids, thereby reducing the volumes of by-products to be treated. Filtration performance data was obtained from the reverse osmosis of dairy fluids, namely skim milk and ultrafiltration permeate, and from the polishing process of their respective permeates. It allowed the comparison of various water reclamation scenarios through a predictive analysis, which revealed that, without increasing operational costs, preconcentrating the skim milk prior the MPC manufacture would reduce the use of water and electricity by 35% and 10%, respectively, compared to a traditional process that consists in the concentration of skim milk by ultrafiltration, followed by the concentration of the resulting retentate by reverse osmosis.
UT WOS:000514252900008
ER

PT J
AU Huang, L
   Wang, YP
   He, RJ
   Kong, XH
   Lei, ST
   Liu, Y
   Wang, BZ
   Jiang, HF
   Liu, HD
   Liu, K
   Hu, XJ
AF Huang, Lu
   Wang, Yipu
   He, Rongjie
   Kong, Xianghui
   Lei, Shuting
   Liu, Yang
   Wang, Bingzheng
   Jiang, Haifeng
   Liu, Huidong
   Liu, Kang
   Hu, Xuejiao
TI Solar-driven co-generation of electricity and water by evaporation
   cooling
DE Electricity generation; Waste heat recovery; Membrane distillation;
   Water production; Evaporation cooling
ID MEMBRANE DISTILLATION; DESALINATION; GENERATION; STILL; OPPORTUNITIES;
   EFFICIENCY; YIELD
AB Solar-driven evaporation has attracted increasing interest due to its broad applications, including desalination, power generation, steam sterilization, and solar fuel production. Among them, electricity generation and water production are urgently required, especially in remote regions lacking electricity and fresh water. In this work, we designed a novel hybrid system of a solar photovoltaic (PV) panel backside coupled with a multistage membrane distiller (MD), for co-generation of electricity and fresh water. Within this hybrid PV-MD system, the generated heat in the PV panel is effectively removed by evaporation cooling to reduce the working temperature, thus leading to higher solar-to-electricity efficiency. In addition, the discharged heat can be recovered to drive the multistage MD for fresh water production. Under one sun, the hybrid system outputted electricity power of 66.6 W m(-2) with a resistance of 10 Omega and produced fresh water with a rate of 1.11 kg m(-2) h(-1) with four stages. Thus, this system can be readily implemented in current photovoltaic modules as a retrofit to improve the PV efficiency and water production.
UT WOS:000535972800002
ER

PT J
AU Barghamadi, H
   Pourfayaz, F
   Shahsavari, A
   Kasaeian, A
AF Barghamadi, Hossein
   Pourfayaz, Fathollah
   Shahsavari, Ardavan
   Kasaeian, Alibakhsh
TI Thermodynamic evaluation of a novel open volumetric receiver-heliostat
   plant/desalination unit hybrid system
DE Solar power tower; Heliostat; MED desalination; Open volumetric
   receiver; EES
ID POWER; ENERGY; OPTIMIZATION; EVAPORATOR; SIMULATION; DESIGN; HEAT
AB In this research, a novel integration of a solar power tower plant with an open volumetric receiver and Multi Effect Distillation (MED) unit based on the different turbine exhaust steam temperatures is introduced and evaluated from the energy and exergy sides. The main goal of this novel system is the supply of electricity and water concurrently. The simulation of this study is done using Engineering Equation Solver (EES). The most important parts of the integrated system include a solar power tower with an open volumetric receiver, MED unit, Rankine cycle, and Heat Recovery Steam Generator (HRSG). The considered values for exhaust steam temperature are equal to 50 degree celsius, 56 degree celsius, 60 degree celsius, 66 degree celsius, 70 degree celsius and 76 degree celsius, as which for simplification these values are presented as MED50, MED56, MED60, MED66, MED70, and MED76 for each specific temperature. The results demonstrate that, with an increase in turbine exhaust steam temperature, the desalination unit performance and desalinated water production capacity increase. In addition, the electricity efficiency and electricity production capacity decrease, and finally the overall efficiency decreases.
UT WOS:001177819600001
ER

PT C
AU Dombrowski, A
   Vanegas, J
   Yan, LP
   Larios, C
AF Dombrowski, Anthony
   Vanegas, Jennifer
   Yan, Liping
   Larios, Cesar
BE Meehan, CL
   McKelvey, JA
   Athanasopoulos-Zekkos, A
   Pando, MA
   Stark, N
   Xiao, M
TI Landslide Identification and Proposed Remediation for Castaic Power
   Plant South Portal Access Road
AB Castaic Power Plant (CPP), a pumped-storage hydroelectric power plant in Castaic, California, is a vital facility operated and maintained by the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power (LADWP). In August 2023, visible deformation was observed along a critical CPP access road, commonly referred to as the South Portal Access Road (SPAR). Between January and March 2024, a series of intense rain events triggered accelerated settlement of the fill slope beneath the outer lane of the SPAR, resulting in failure of the access road. A seismic refraction survey was performed on the landslide mass and surrounding area to assess the subsurface conditions and determine the design parameters for the implementation of a series of retaining structures necessary for permanent mitigation of the road failure and restoration of access for continued plant operations. This paper outlines the observed progression of the failure, the geophysical data supporting the design, and the rationale for the selected remediation approach.
UT WOS:001665911300022
ER

PT J
AU Edwards, P
AF Edwards, Peter
TI Urban sustainability: Lessons from organisms and ecosystems
DE decentralization; ecosystem services; resilience; sustainability; urban
   infrastructure
AB The services essential for urban life include provision of electricity and water, disposal of sewage and solid waste, and management of stormwater. In the past two centuries, the infrastructure providing these services has become increasingly large and centralized, which from a sustainability perspective is problematic. I argue that, to be sustainable, a city must be integrated like a living organism, while having the resilience properties of a mature ecosystem. For the provision of infrastructure, this means that today's massive, highly centralized facilities must give way to more distributed yet interconnected systems.
UT WOS:000710278700001
ER

PT J
AU Ueda, M
AF Ueda, Minoru
TI A Preliminary Environmental Assessment for the Preservation and
   Restoration of Fujian Hakka Tulou Complexes
DE rammed earth; earth buildings; thermal environment; sustainable living;
   energy efficiency; Hakka Tulou; Hakka village
AB In 2007 and 2009, research trips were taken, mainly in the Fujian province of China, to investigate the construction materials, methods, structures and floor plans of Hakka Tulou. Researchers lived in several Tulou, interviewed residents and experienced traditional Hakka lifestyle. Typically, Tulou are located in remote regions at relatively high elevations in climatic conditions characterized by hot summers, cold winters, and with high incidents of typhoons and earthquakes. The extent of damage and level of preservation were examined with respect to the age of many of these structures, the relatively harsh environment, and changing demographics in the region. The majority of occupants are now elderly. They maintain a traditional and efficient lifestyle utilizing minimum electricity, water, and energy. This study discusses the findings from these two field trips and assesses environmental load and sustainability within the context of current environmental standards using the Japanese Comprehensive Assessment System for Building Environmental Efficiency (CASBEE) from data collected at Cheng Qi Lou. The goal was: firstly to undertake a preliminary environmental assessment to determine sustainable elements of Hakka Tulou construction methods; secondly, to identify potential sustainable solutions to preserve existing structure; and finally, to identify appropriate sustainable solutions to repair and retrofit damaged and underutilized structures to modern living standards, while retaining traditional building techniques and lifestyle.
UT WOS:000324043900003
ER

PT J
AU Marcelino, AC
   Lermen, FH
   Rossi, D
   Barros, MV
   Ribeiro, JLD
AF Marcelino, Aline Cristine
   Lermen, Fernando Henrique
   Rossi, Daiane
   Barros, Murillo Vetroni
   Ribeiro, Jose Luis Duarte
TI Environmental sustainability in food processing: challenges and
   solutions in the vegetable oil and fat industry in Brazil
DE Food industry; Vegetable oil industry; Fat industry; Sustainability;
   Interpretive structural modeling; MICMAC analysis
ID WATER POLLUTION ACCIDENTS; SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT; PARTICLE EMISSIONS;
   WASTE-WATER; BIOSURFACTANT; CATALYSTS; KNOWLEDGE; BARRIERS; RECOVERY;
   NICKEL
AB PurposeThe global demand for food is continuously growing, requiring the expansion of the food industry. However, due to environmental concerns, this expansion needs to be done sustainably. Considering the mentioned scenario, this paper identifies challenges and proposes solutions for implementing sustainable practices in Brazil's vegetable oil and fat industries.Design/methodology/approachThis study used two approaches: a case study comprising semi-structured interviews and a literature review initially conducted to identify challenges and solutions for the industry in this food sector. Interpretive structural modeling and cross-impact matrix multiplication analysis applied to classification were used to interrelate the challenges.FindingsThe results show eight main challenges in the studied processes: the amount of phosphorus in the effluents, disposal of nickel catalyst, boiler pollution, high water and electricity consumption, inefficient oil recovery, fatty acid entrainment in the effluents, lack of technologies to avoid environmental accidents and steam leakage in the plants.Practical implicationsThe interrelationship between the challenges described above is complex, requiring significant efforts to overcome the lack of sustainability in this food production system. To cope with such complexity, nineteen solutions have been proposed to facilitate the resolution of these challenges, assisting in reducing the food industry's environmental impact.Originality/valueNo prior studies using management methods to assess the challenges and solutions for Brazil's vegetable oil and fat industry were found.
UT WOS:001520163900001
ER

PT J
AU Busby, JS
   Green, B
   Hutchison, D
AF Busby, J. S.
   Green, B.
   Hutchison, D.
TI Analysis of Affordance, Time, and Adaptation in the Assessment of
   Industrial Control System Cybersecurity Risk
DE Adaptation; affordance; cybersecurity; industrial control systems
ID VULNERABILITY ASSESSMENT; SAFETY ANALYSIS; FRAMEWORK; MANAGEMENT; SCADA;
   ARCHITECTURE; INFORMATION; PREVENTION; BEHAVIOR; MODELS
AB Industrial control systems increasingly use standard communication protocols and are increasingly connected to public networks-creating substantial cybersecurity risks, especially when used in critical infrastructures such as electricity and water distribution systems. Methods of assessing risk in such systems have recognized for some time the way in which the strategies of potential adversaries and risk managers interact in defining the risk to which such systems are exposed. But it is also important to consider the adaptations of the systems' operators and other legitimate users to risk controls, adaptations that often appear to undermine these controls, or shift the risk from one part of a system to another. Unlike the case with adversarial risk analysis, the adaptations of system users are typically orthogonal to the objective of minimizing or maximizing risk in the system. We argue that this need to analyze potential adaptations to risk controls is true for risk problems more generally, and we develop a framework for incorporating such adaptations into an assessment process. The method is based on the principle of affordances, and we show how this can be incorporated in an iterative procedure based on raising the minimum period of risk materialization above some threshold. We apply the method in a case study of a small European utility provider and discuss the observations arising from this.
UT WOS:000406419500009
ER

PT J
AU Stec, A
   Kordana, S
AF Stec, Agnieszka
   Kordana, Sabina
TI Analysis of profitability of rainwater harvesting, gray water recycling
   and drain water heat recovery systems
DE Gray water recycling; Rainwater harvesting; Heat recovery from drain
   water; Life Cycle Cost; Water saving; Energy saving
ID ENERGY-CONSUMPTION; RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS; GREYWATER TREATMENT;
   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS; CLIMATE-CHANGE; POTABLE WATER; REUSE; MANAGEMENT;
   CONSERVATION; FEASIBILITY
AB Gray water recycling and economical use of rainwater can be a valuable alternative source of water, especially for non-potable uses. These sources are seen as the basis of change in waters management, which gives a possibility of protection of still shrinking water resources. Taking into account continuing urbanization and population growth in the world, not only the management of water resources requires a change in attitudes, but also the management and conservation of conventional fuels that energy is generated of, and that are required for the development and functioning of urban areas. Bearing this in mind, some studies have been performed in order to establish the cost-effectiveness of application systems capable of reducing the demand for tap water and electricity used to heat it. A financial analysis with an application of the Life Cycle Cost methodology has been conducted for a multi-family residential building for seven different variants of installation of water and sewage, which assumed the use of the following solutions: gray water harvesting system, rainwater harvesting system and drain water heat recovery units. This analysis showed that the use of these systems in the tested building is financially viable, despite the fact that their implementation is associated with incurring higher investment cost than in the base case (Variant 0). The study was expanded by a sensitivity analysis on the basis of which it was possible to conclude that the project involving the use of alternative sources of pending water and energy in this building is only slightly susceptible to changes in calculation parameters. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000367769800009
ER

PT J
AU Almehmadi, FA
   Elattar, HF
   Fouda, A
   Alqaed, S
   Mustafa, J
   Alharthi, MA
   Refaey, HA
AF Almehmadi, Fahad Awjah
   Elattar, H. F.
   Fouda, A.
   Alqaed, Saeed
   Mustafa, Jawed
   Alharthi, Mathkar A.
   Refaey, H. A.
TI Energy Performance Assessment of a Novel Solar Poly-Generation System
   Using Various ORC Working Fluids in Residential Buildings
DE poly-generation; ORC; HDH; DCS; organic fluid; heat recovery
ID ORGANIC RANKINE-CYCLE; OXIDE FUEL-CELL; TRIGENERATION SYSTEM; EXERGY
   ANALYSIS; MULTIOBJECTIVE OPTIMIZATION; MULTIGENERATION SYSTEM;
   POLYGENERATION SYSTEM; DESALINATION SYSTEMS; POWER-GENERATION; HDH
   DESALINATION
AB Poly-generation systems are an exciting new technology that provide an alternative to separating existing energy production methods in buildings. A poly-generation system enables the efficient simultaneous production of heating, cooling, fresh water, and electricity, resulting in many technological, economic, energy recovery, and environmental advantages. This study numerically investigates three proposed novel solar-driven poly-generation systems (BS, IS-I, and IS-II) integrated with organic Rankine cycle (ORC), humidification-dehumidification desalination system (HDH), and desiccant cooling system (DCS) with different heat recovery system arrangements. The suggested systems supply residential structures with energy, space conditioning, domestic heating, and fresh water. The effects of system operating circumstances on productivity and performance characteristics and several organic working fluid types (n-octane, R245fa, R113, isopentane, and toluene) on optimum system performance have been investigated. The results show that (i) the average enhancement percentage of TGOR using integrated poly-generation systems over the separated ones is 68.5%, 68.5%, and 95.5% for BS, IS-I, and IS-II systems, respectively; (ii) when comparing the three systems, the IS-I system outperforms the other systems (BS & IS-II); and (iii) the maximum values of W-net(.), m(fresh)(.), Q(cooling)(.), and Q(heating)(.), obtained for different proposed systems using n-octane are 102 kW (all systems), 214.7 kg/h (IS-II), 29.94 kW (IS-II), and 225.6 kW (IS-I); (iv) R113 has the highest TGOR of 0.6924 (IS-I) compared to other organic fluids. (v) The improvements in W-net(.), m(fresh)(.), Q(cooling)(.), and Q(heating)(.), with using toluene instead of R113 at t(f1) = 40 degrees C are 177.5%, 105.8%, 389.25%, and 79%, respectively.
UT WOS:000883502300001
ER

PT C
AU Dwivedi, A
AF Dwivedi, Anurag
BE Ternovsky, IV
   Chin, P
TI Designing for resilience
DE Resilience; threat; vulnerability; cyber attack; critical
   infrastructure; mission impact; criticality analysis; risk mitigation
AB The motivation for this work comes from a desire to improve resilience of mission critical cyber enabled systems including those used in critical infrastructure domains such as cyber, power, water, fuel, financial, healthcare, agriculture, and manufacturing. Resilience can be defined as the ability of a system to persistently meet its performance requirements despite the occurrence of adverse events. Characterizing the resilience of a system requires a clear definition of the performance requirements of the system of interest and an ability to quantify the impact on performance by the adverse events of concern. A quantitative characterization of system resilience allows the resilience requirements to be included in the system design criteria. Resilience requirements of a system are derived from the service level agreements (SLAs), measures of effectiveness (MOEs), and measures of performance (MOPs) of the services or missions supported by the system. This paper describes a methodology for designing resilient systems. The components of the methodology include resilience characterization for threat models associated with various exposure modes, requirements mapping, subsystem ranking based on criticality, and selective implementation of mitigations to improve system resilience to a desired level.
UT WOS:000345030300009
ER

PT J
AU Liu, ZF
   Zhao, XL
   Qi, YJ
AF Liu, Zifeng
   Zhao, Xuliang
   Qi, Yongjie
TI A novel zero-emission process for the co-production of power, natural
   gas liquid, and carbon dioxide based on shale gas
DE Improved Allam cycle; Shale gas; Integrated cycles; 4E analysis; Product
   cost
ID RECOVERY PROCESS; CO2 CAPTURE; MULTIOBJECTIVE OPTIMIZATION; GENERATION
   EFFICIENCY; WATER-CONSUMPTION; ALLAM CYCLE; FRESH-WATER; CHP SYSTEM;
   FUEL-CELL; ENERGY
AB This paper presents an integrated process with three products, namely carbon dioxide, power, and natural gas liquid, from the pollutant shale gas. The proposed system utilizes all shale gas for product generation, contributing to the zero CO2 footprint. The hydrocarbon recovery is performed through cold energy integration. An Aspen HYSYS code simulates the system to assess the 4E analysis. Results showed that the proposed structure's first and second laws efficiencies are 51.29% and 80.54%, respectively. This process includes natural gas liquids recovery unit, Allam power cycle, steam power cycle, NH3 power cycle, and ammonia-water power cycle. Exergy analysis illustrated that the largest exergy destruction, valued at 392.15 MW (a 52.81% contribution), happens in the absorption power cycle. Among all equipment, the combustion chamber has the highest exergy destruction. The environmental analysis revealed that the proposed process has zero carbon emission and 4866 tons of CO2 is produced. In the natural gas liquid recovery unit, due to the employing separation with a turboexpander, good refrigeration is provided for the shale gas, which results in the maximum hydrocarbon recovery of 4163 barrels/day. Moreover, besides providing all the power requirements of pumps and compressors, the proposed process generates 460.60 MW of power with a production cost of 8.36 $/MWh.
UT WOS:001031652200001
ER

PT J
AU Dueñas-Osorio, L
   Craig, JI
   Goodno, BJ
AF Duenas-Osorio, Leonardo
   Craig, James I.
   Goodno, Barry J.
TI Seismic response of critical interdependent networks
DE interdependent networks; seismic fragility; infrastructure systems;
   cascading failures; network functionality; seismic mitigation
ID MODEL
AB During the last decade, critical infrastructure systems such as electric power, water distribution, transportation and telecommunications have been stressed by significant natural hazards and human errors leading to malfunction. Earthquakes, blackouts and satellite failures have evidenced the vulnerability of these growing networked systems threatening the continuity of the United States' economy. The potential for malicious perturbations to these systems is also an important current concern. However, the underlying susceptibility of these networks to disruptive events is in large part due to the increasingly complex pattern of interdependencies that tie these civil infrastructures together. This paper mainly investigates the effect of seismic disruptions on the performance of real interdependent networks. Maintenance-induced malfunctions and coordinated attacks are also studied for completeness. Several degrees of interconnectedness are explored. Interdependent network fragility curves are introduced to display the effect of these different strengths of coupling. Characterization of the performance displayed by the networks is utilized to propose mitigation actions and study propagation of their effects. It is shown that minimal strategic interventions propagated through the network can generate a more resilient interdependent entity. Copyright (C) 2006 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
UT WOS:000243695300008
ER

PT J
AU Najafi, J
   Peiravi, A
   Anvari-Moghaddam, A
   Guerrero, JM
AF Najafi, Javad
   Peiravi, Ali
   Anvari-Moghaddam, Amjad
   Guerrero, Josep M.
TI Resilience improvement planning of power-water distribution systems with
   multiple microgrids against hurricanes using clean strategies
DE Microgrids; Resilience improvement planning; Stochastic linear
   programming; Power network; Water network
ID ENERGY SYSTEM; RESOURCES; EXTREME; RECONFIGURATION; INFRASTRUCTURE
AB This paper proposes a comprehensive planning framework including a main problem and two sub-problems to enhance the resilience of power distribution network (PDN) and water distribution network (WDN) with multiple microgrids against hurricanes. The main problem which is formulated in stochastic programming aims to minimize the investment cost of resilience improvement strategies and the expected inaccessibility values of loads to power and water under hurricanes. Line hardening in PDN, upgrading the energy storage size in microgrids and water tanks in WDN are considered as three clean candidate strategies. In analyzing each scenario of the main problem, the microgrids which are connected to the PDN are modeled as emergency sources through the first stochastic sub -problem that can restore disconnected loads and water pumps. Water pumps as critical loads are equipped with emergency generators with limited fuel capacity. If there are some water pumps which cannot be restored in each scenario of the main problem, their emergency generators will be scheduled with the second subproblem of the model. The proposed model is tested on the modified IEEE 33-bus PDN with multiple microgrids and a designed WDN, and the effectiveness of the proposed method is validated accordingly. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000466253100011
ER

PT C
AU Suzuki, Y
   Adachi, N
AF Suzuki, Y.
   Adachi, N.
GP MILLPRESS
TI Characteristics of lateral ground force acting on piles in laterally
   spreading soil
AB Two series of shaking table tests, one with a quay wall and the other without, were conducted to clarify the lateral ground force acting on piles in liquefied and laterally spreading soils. It is shown that (1) the lateral ground force acting on a pile in laterally spreading soil as well as that in liquefied soil has the characteristics of solid ground due to decrease in excess power water pressure and recovery of effective nortnal stress after liquefaction, and (2) the lateral ground force acting on a pile near a quay wall becomes nine times larger than the maximum inertial force at a pile head in laterally spreading soil.
UT WOS:000246615103025
ER

PT J
AU Palenzuela, P
   Hassan, AS
   Zaragoza, G
   Alarcón-Padilla, DC
AF Palenzuela, Patricia
   Hassan, Ashraf S.
   Zaragoza, Guillermo
   Alarcon-Padilla, Diego-C.
TI Steady state model for multi-effect distillation case study: Plataforma
   Solar de Almeria MED pilot plant
DE Multi-effect distillation; Modeling; Energy recovery
ID EVAPORATION DESALINATION SYSTEMS; SEAWATER DESALINATION;
   PARABOLIC-TROUGH; POWER-PLANTS; SIMULATION; PERFORMANCE
AB A steady-state mathematical model of a vertically stacked forward feed multi-effect distillation (MED) plant has been carried out using a number of simplifying assumptions. The model has been developed taking into consideration the same design and operational characteristics as the pilot MED plant at Plataforma Solar de Almeria (PSA), in the southeast of Spain. It is a forward feed MED plant with preheaters, which uses low steam temperature coming from a parabolic-trough solar collector field as the thermal energy source. The pilot plant has a special distillate distribution for increased energy recovery which has also been taken into account in the model. This model is simple to implement and suitable for its use in optimization of water production in power and water cogeneration systems. The results of the model have been compared with the experimental data of the pilot plant showing a maximum prediction error of 9%. (C) 2013 Published by Elsevier B.V.
UT WOS:000332904200005
ER

PT J
AU Riera, JA
   Lima, RM
   Ezekiel, J
   Mai, PM
   Knio, O
AF Riera, Jefferson A.
   Lima, Ricardo M.
   Ezekiel, Justin
   Mai, P. Martin
   Knio, Omar
TI Addressing extreme weather events for the renewable power-water-heating
   sectors in Neom, Saudi Arabia
ID HIGH-RESOLUTION ASSESSMENT; TIME-SERIES AGGREGATION; ENERGY-SYSTEMS;
   ELECTRICITY; GENERATION; WIND
AB A renewable energy design optimization model is proposed to plan investments in power, water, and heat technologies. The intermittent nature of renewables requires that these models capture the variability and complementarity of resources at high spatial and temporal resolutions. However, most planning models use time-series reduction methods that, while capturing data variance, often smooth out extreme weather or demand patterns. To account for extreme patterns and design reliable energy systems, we propose a clustering-optimization framework that considers extreme weather days. This framework is applied to design an integrated multi-sector energy system for the Neom region in Saudi Arabia. Our results show that fully renewable systems designed without considering extreme days could not meet demands and instead required external power or water supplies during a post-optimization simulation. Once extreme days were considered in the optimization, system reliability increased at the expense of larger generation and storage capacity investments.
   In the Neom region of Saudia Arabia, renewable power systems designed without considering extreme weather days do not meet the demands and require external energy or water supplies according to the data-driven approach combining cost and technical parameters and renewable resource availability.
UT WOS:001338487200001
ER

PT J
AU He, WF
   Han, D
   Xu, LN
   Yue, C
   Pu, WH
AF He, W. F.
   Han, D.
   Xu, L. N.
   Yue, C.
   Pu, W. H.
TI Performance investigation of a novel water-power cogeneration plant
   (WPCP) based on humidification dehumidification (HDH) method
DE Humidification dehumidification; Desalination; Organic Rankine cycle;
   Water-power cogeneration plant; Extended gained output ratio
ID RANKINE-CYCLE ORC; WASTE HEAT-RECOVERY; DESALINATION SYSTEM;
   THERMODYNAMIC ANALYSIS; SOLAR AIR; UNIT; OPTIMIZATION; DESIGN; ENERGY
AB Humidification dehumidification (HDH) technology was well applied to produce freshwater in the desalination system. However, besides the demand of freshwater, power is also required simultaneously in most situations. In the paper, a novel water-power cogeneration plant (WPCP) based on the HDH desalination system coupled with the organic Rankine cycle (ORC) is proposed. Energy analysis for the proposed combined system at different appointed operation parameters is achieved, and the corresponding performance correlation between the HDH desalination and ORC power system are revealed. It is verified that the production of freshwater and electricity can be gained synchronously in the suggested novel platform, and the performance of the whole system is really sensitive to the operation parameters of the HDH desalination system. It is found that after the regulation of the operation pressure, p, and the seawater temperature at the outlet of the seawater heater, T-sw,T-2, for the HDH desalination from p = 0.1 MPa, T-sw,T-2 = 353.15 K to p= 0.3 MPa, T-sw,T-2 = 383.15 K, a maximum elevation, 25.46 kg h(-1) for the freshwater production, 4.17 kW for the electricity and 2% for the extended gained output ratio (EGOR) is obtained. Furthermore, owing to the asynchronism between the specific production and the final energy utilization efficiency, the balance should be optimized among the demand of the freshwater and power and the efficiency of the novel WPCP. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000369191400018
ER

PT J
AU Lintmeijer, LL
   Hofmijster, MJ
   Fischedick, GAS
   Zijlstra, PJ
   Van Soest, AJ
AF Lintmeijer, Lotte L.
   Hofmijster, Mathijs J.
   Fischedick, Guido A. Schulte
   Zijlstra, Patrick J.
   Van Soest, A. J.
TI Improved determination of mechanical power output in rowing:
   Experimental results
DE rowing; biomechanics; kinetics; power output
ID ACCELERATION; RELIABILITY
AB In rowing, mechanical power output is a key parameter for biophysical analyses and performance monitoring and should therefore be measured accurately. It is common practice to estimate on-water power output as the time average of the dot product of the moment of the handle force relative to the oar pin and the oar angular velocity. In a theoretical analysis we have recently shown that this measure differs from the true power output by an amount that equals the mean of the rower's mass multiplied by the rower's center of mass acceleration and the velocity of the boat. In this study we investigated the difference between a rower's power output calculated using the common proxy and the true power output under different rowing conditions. Nine rowers participated in an on-water experiment consisting of 7 trials in a single scull. Stroke rate, technique and forces applied to the oar were varied. On average, rowers' power output was underestimated with 12.3% when determined using the common proxy. Variations between rowers and rowing conditions were small (SD=1.1%) and mostly due to differences in stroke rate. To analyze and monitor rowing performance accurately, a correction of the determination of rowers' on-water power output is therefore required.
UT WOS:000435697200014
ER

PT C
AU Stefanuto, B
   Funchal, G
   Melo, V
   Mendes, A
   Raimundo, D
   Gouveia, H
   Coelho, JP
   Leitao, P
AF Stefanuto, Bruno
   Funchal, Gustavo
   Melo, Victoria
   Mendes, Andre
   Raimundo, Delio
   Gouveia, Helia
   Coelho, Joao Paulo
   Leitao, Paulo
GP IEEE
TI IoT-based Solution to Reduce Waste and Promote a Sustainable Farming
   Industry
DE Internet of Things; Agriculture 4.0; Sustainable Production
AB Waste and the necessity to increase sustainability in the farming industry are some of the challenges addressed in the agri-food chain. With the potential of digital technologies, e.g., the Internet of Things (IoT) and Artificial Intelligence, to revolutionize agriculture by enabling more efficient and intelligent monitoring, system architecture and IoT nodes were developed to support relevant parameters for composing a Sustainability Index for the Bio-economy (siBIO). These nodes are scalable, modular, capable of meeting on-demand production needs, and provide a cost-effective alternative to commercial solutions or manual data collection methods. The collected data is transmitted to middleware and then stored, analyzed, and displayed on a user-friendly dashboard, providing data to siBIO and consequently contributing to a more sustainable farming industry and reducing waste of resources and food. The results include the implementation of IoT nodes in a case study involving a vineyard and an apple orchard. The nodes are successfully collecting data on environmental, operational, and energy parameters such as temperature, air humidity, soil moisture, precipitation, and water and electricity consumption for irrigation. The tests of data transmission and collection, functionality and robustness of the proposed solution were promising, offering a way to quantify the sustainability index and facilitate the exchange of agricultural information in a reliable and standardized way.
UT WOS:001241286500054
ER

PT J
AU Santos, FBD
   Kaschuk, J
   Banvillet, G
   Jalaee, A
   Rojas, OJ
   Foster, EJ
AF Santos, Fernanda Brito dos
   Kaschuk, Joice
   Banvillet, Gabriel
   Jalaee, Adel
   Rojas, Orlando J.
   Foster, E. Johan
TI Alternative proton exchange membrane based on a bicomponent anionic
   nanocellulose system
DE TEMPO-oxidized CNF; Sulfonated CNF; Ion exchange membranes; Fuel cells;
   Nanocellulose
ID TEMPO-MEDIATED OXIDATION; POLY ETHER SULFONE; NANOFIBRILLATED CELLULOSE;
   COMPOSITE MEMBRANES; FUEL-CELLS; ELECTROLYTE; NANOFIBERS
AB As integral parts of fuel cells, polymer electrolyte membranes (PEM) facilitate the conversion of hydrogen 's chemical energy into electricity and water. Unfortunately, commercial PEMs are associated with high costs, limited durability, variable electrochemical performance and are based on perfluorinated polymers that persist in the environment. Nanocellulose-based PEMs have emerged as alternative options given their renewability, thermal and mechanical stability, low-cost, and hydrophilicity. These PEMs take advantage of the anionic nature of most nanocelluloses, as well as their facile modification with conductive functional groups, for instance, to endow ionic and electron conductivity. Herein, we incorporated for the first time two nanocellulose types, TEMPO-oxidized and sulfonated, to produce a fully bio-based PEM and studied their contribution separately and when mixed in a PEM matrix. Sulfonated nanocellulose-based PEMs are shown to perform similarly to commercial and bio-based membranes, demonstrating good thermal-oxidative stability (up to 190 degree celsius), mechanical robustness (Young 's modulus as high as 1.15 GPa and storage moduli >13 GPa), and high moisture-uptake capacity (ca. 6330 % after 48 h). The introduced nanocellulose membranes are shown as promising materials for proton-exchange material applications, as required in fuel cells.
UT WOS:001249206100001
ER

PT J
AU Alhamad, K
   M'Hallah, R
   Lucas, C
AF Alhamad, Khaled
   M'Hallah, Rym
   Lucas, Cormac
TI A Mathematical Program for Scheduling Preventive Maintenance of
   Cogeneration Plants with Production
DE preventive maintenance; scheduling; optimization; mathematical
   programming
ID MODEL; GENERATION
AB This paper considers the scheduling of preventive maintenance for the boilers, turbines, and distillers of power plants that produce electricity and desalinated water. It models the problem as a mathematical program (MP) that maximizes the sum of the minimal ratios of production to the demand of electricity and water during a planning time horizon. This objective encourages the plants' production and enhances the chances of meeting consumers' needs. It reduces the chance of power cuts and water shortages that may be caused by emergency disruptions of equipment on the network. To assess its performance and effectiveness, we test the MP on a real system consisting of 32 units and generate a preventive maintenance schedule for a time horizon of 52 weeks (one year). The generated schedule outperforms the schedule established by experts of the water plant; it induces, respectively, 16% and 12% increases in the surpluses while either matching or surpassing the total production. The sensitivity analysis further indicates that the generated schedule can handle unforeseen longer maintenance periods as well as a 120% increase in demand-a sizable realization in a country that heavily relies on electricity to acclimate to the harsh weather conditions. In addition, it suggests the robustness of the schedules with respect to increased demand. In summary, the MP model yields optimal systematic sustainable schedules.
UT WOS:000676243300001
ER

PT J
AU Meyer, R
   Paredes, DAF
   Fuentes, M
   Amelio, A
   Morero, B
   Luis, P
   Van der Bruggen, B
   Espinosa, J
AF Meyer, Regina
   Figueroa Paredes, Danilo Alexander
   Fuentes, Mauren
   Amelio, Antonio
   Morero, Betzabet
   Luis, Patricia
   Van der Bruggen, Bart
   Espinosa, Jose
TI Conceptual model-based optimization and environmental evaluation of
   waste solvent technologies: Distillation/incineration versus
   distillation/pervaporation
DE Distillation/incineration; Distillation/pervaporation; Conceptual
   modeling; Optimization; Life cycle assessment
ID LIFE-CYCLE ASSESSMENT; TANGENT PINCH POINTS; BATCH DISTILLATIONS;
   TREATMENT OPTIONS; PROCESS DESIGN; PERVAPORATION; MANAGEMENT; RECOVERY;
   INDUSTRY
AB In this work, a conceptual model-based optimization is performed for designing two waste solvent treatment technologies: (i) hybrid process distillation assisted by pervaporation and (ii) distillation/incineration.
   This task was performed resorting to conceptual models or shortcuts for each unit operation involved, which are characterized by their abilities to capture the essence of the process at a low computational cost. Life cycle assessment (LCA) was applied to evaluate the environmental impact of both alternatives. Optimal values for the utilities, i.e., cooling water, electricity and steam needed for distillation and pervaporation were used as the input data to perform the environmental analysis with LCA. Ecosolvent v.1.0.1 was used to calculate inventories data related to the incineration technology (waste solvent incineration and cement kiln) of the first cut of the distillation step for the case distillation/incineration and for treatment of column residues of both alternatives investigated.
   Applied to the mixture isopropyl alcohol-water, optimal values for per-pass IPA recovery and distillate composition were determined for the alternative distillation/incineration and distillation/pervaporation, respectively. From the analysis of the economic figures, it was concluded that solvent recovery through the hybrid process is the better option mainly due to the savings in the cost of fresh solvent. The LCA results, performed in SimaPro 7.3, show that the main impact is related to the solvent production. Thus, solvent recovery is the best option if minimization of the use of resources is paramount. Nevertheless incineration in a cement kiln becomes relevant in terms of human health for the avoided use of fuels.
   Furthermore, it was concluded that both process optimization with the aid of conceptual models and LCA are key tools in the decision-making process to determine which technology is the most appropriate for the treatment of waste solvents. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000369461700029
ER

PT J
AU Alipoor, F
   Gilani, H
   Sahebi, H
   Ghannadpour, SF
AF Alipoor, Fateme
   Gilani, Hani
   Sahebi, Hadi
   Ghannadpour, Seyed Farid
TI Renewable energy-powered water desalination and treatment network under
   wind power and water demand uncertainty: A possibilistic
   chance-constrained programming
DE Renewable energy; Desalination; Supply chain management; Water supply
   network; Uncertainty
ID REVERSE-OSMOSIS DESALINATION; CONCENTRATING SOLAR POWER; TECHNOECONOMIC
   ASSESSMENT; SEAWATER DESALINATION; SUSTAINABLE SOLUTION;
   INTEGRATED-SYSTEM; STORAGE; OPTIMIZATION; DESIGN; PLANT
AB Given the scarcity of freshwater resources, the growing significance of desalination is undeniable. It holds immense potential, particularly in regions grappling with severe water shortages. However, desalination's Achilles heel lies in its voracious energy appetite, requiring roughly ten times more energy than wastewater treatment. Moreover, the prevalent use of fossil fuels in desalination plants poses concerning issues like environmental pollution, fossil fuel depletion, and rising costs. The present study has designed an integrated Water desalination and treatment Network that includes a number of desalination facilities, storage centers, wind farms, and wastewater treatment facilities. The water desalination and treatment network has been structured using a Mixed-Integer Linear Programming (MILP) model, considering uncertainties in wind power and water demand. Employing a chance constraint probabilistic programming approach, this model ensures robustness and balances conservatism with investment attractiveness. It aims to enhance resilience against fluctuations in wind energy and water demand within the water and energy supply chain network. The study applied this model to optimize the locations of desalination plants, treatment centers, and storage facilities. This integrated model ensures autonomy, eliminating the need for external water and energy sources while reliably meeting regional demands. In the context of the Makran coasts case study, our comprehensive mathematical model demonstrates an optimal allocation with 96.67 % attributed to fixed costs and only 3.33 % to variable costs. Moreover, this model precisely optimizes the locations of two desalination centers, two storage facilities, and ten water treatment centers, effectively managing the need for external water resources. Ultimately, through a rigorous sensitivity analysis, we unveiled that the chance constraint parameters have a significant impact on the variable costs.
UT WOS:001308764100001
ER

PT C
AU Asha'ari, MI
   Ibrahim, AI
AF Asha'ari, Muhammad Ilyas
   Ibrahim, Ahmad Imran
GP IEEE
TI Wireless Water Quality Monitoring System
DE Water quality monitoring; untethered buoy; Global Positioning System
   (GPS); wireless)
ID LOW-COST
AB The condition and environment of a river ecosystem could be easily altered from the outside factors such as the changing of ground structure, climate change and presence of undesired substances. Thus, a constant analysis and evaluation on the water system and its quality parameter is required to preserve the river nature. The implementation of wireless water quality monitoring system is rarely used for the river water study. Hence, a suitable design of the system with compatible mechanism needs to be developed. In this study, an untethered buoy will be constructed with the used of motor, Global Positioning System (GPS) as a mechanism to maintain its location. The idea of this mechanism is to replace the common tethered buoy design developed in most research such as the mooring buoy. Besides, design of the buoy will be able to create a low cost and power efficiency device with high reliability for a wireless water quality monitoring system. Furthermore, the parameter used for the water quality monitoring is the dissolved oxygen in the water and the power system selected is using the solar energy with a circuit design that capable to do charging and discharging process. The 3D model of the design will be developed and some virtual simulation will be done on the model using Solidwork as the CAD software. The buoy performance to operate on a water surface and the capability to transmit the data for water quality monitoring will be tested at the pool in Kulliyyah of Engineering, IIUM.
UT WOS:000982339400009
ER

PT J
AU Min, OY
AF Min Ouyang
TI A mathematical framework to optimize resilience of interdependent
   critical infrastructure systems under spatially localized attacks
DE Risk analysis; Critical infrastructure systems; Interdependencies;
   Resilience; Spatially localized attacks
ID VULNERABILITY ANALYSIS; DEFENSE STRATEGY; NETWORK DESIGN;
   IDENTIFICATION; PREFERENCE; RAILWAY
AB This paper defines the hazards that can cause direct localized damage or interruption as Spatially Localized Attacks (SLAs). The SLAs-induced impact on a critical infrastructure system (CIS) is modeled as the failure of system components that exist within some localized area while those outside this area remain operating. Instead of identifying and analyzing each type of the SLAs-related hazards, this paper makes a worst-case analysis and proposes a mathematical framework to support resilience optimization of interdependent CISs under the worst SLA. For illustrative purposes, this paper mainly considers two types of strategies to enhance CIS resilience, including protecting weak components, and building new components to increase redundancy. The problem is mathematically formulated as a tri-level defender-attacker defender model, which is exactly solved by a proposed decomposition algorithm. The case study on interdependent power and water systems demonstrates how the proposed approach can not only identify the optimum resilience enhancement strategy as well as the worst-case SLA, but also analyze the importance of considering interdependencies from both the attacker's and the defender's perspectives. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000403732700021
ER

PT J
AU Nieto-Martinez, R
   Babagoli, MA
   Gonzalez-Rivas, JP
   Ugel, E
   Duran, M
   Marulanda, MI
   Mechanick, JI
   Danaei, G
AF Nieto-Martinez, Ramfis
   Babagoli, Masih A.
   Gonzalez-Rivas, Juan Pablo
   Ugel, Eunice
   Duran, Maritza
   Marulanda, Maria Ines
   Mechanick, Jeffrey I.
   Danaei, Goodarz
TI Characterizing the Venezuelan situation between 2014-2020 in a
   population-based study using seven key indicators
DE Crisis; Venezuela; Food insecurity; EVESCAM; Vulnerability
ID CARDIOMETABOLIC RISK-FACTORS; FOOD INSECURITY; HEALTH; CRISIS; EVESCAM
AB BackgroundVenezuela has faced a crisis over the past decade. This study aims to characterize the crisis and identify the population's most vulnerable subgroups.MethodsFollow-up data (2018-2020) from 1,257 subjects (35% of the total) who participated in the nationally representative sample of the Venezuelan Study of Cardiometabolic Health (EVESCAM, 2014-2017) were analyzed. The distribution of seven crisis indicators- food insecurity, stressful life events, family separation, disruption in access to utilities (water, electricity, gas, or sanitation), lack of access to medications, lack of access to transportation, and disruption of childhood education- were analyzed across five subgroups (age, sex, ethnicity, socioeconomic status [SES], and education). Logistic regression adjusted by other socio-demographic variables was used to analyze associations among variables.ResultsOf the total sample, 71.8% were female, 67.0% >= 50 years old, 52% low SES, and 80.2% Mixed ethnicity. Overall, 77.3% reported disruption in access to at least one utility and 31.7% to two or more utilities. The former was higher in females (OR 1.46, 95% CI 1.08-1.98) and those with lower education (OR 2.03, 1.27-3.23). Lack of electricity (70.2%) was similar across subgroups. Lack of transportation (76.2%) affected females (OR 1.36, 1.10-1.67) and those of Mixed ethnicity more strongly. Disruption of children's education was reported more in homes with the youngest, Amerindian, low SES, and less educated participants. Family separation (49.2%) affected older and female participants more strongly. Food insecurity (60.2%) was more frequent in the low SES group compared with the high SES group (OR 2.17, 1.45-3.25). Stressful life events (67.2%) and lack of medications (43.8%) did not differ across subgroups.ConclusionsThe Venezuelan humanitarian crisis has heightened vulnerability to crisis indicators among women, elders, those with low SES, and less educated subgroups of the population. These findings should prompt cost-effective programs targeted at those most vulnerable.
UT WOS:001504315200006
ER

PT C
AU Fue, K
   Schueller, J
   Schumann, A
   Turnbo, S
AF Fue, Kadeghe
   Schueller, John
   Schumann, Arnold
   Turnbo, Siza
GP IEEE
TI A Solar-powered, Wi-FiRe-programmable Precision Irrigation Controller
DE precision irrigation; wireless; controller; drip irrigation;
   solar-powered
AB As the Tanzania population grows, scarcity of resources like water and electricity will pose a great risk to horticultural crop production and society activities. Precision irrigation poses a great opportunity to save water and energy in agriculture. The current off-the-shelf machines used to control water are incompatible to Tanzanian conditions, very expensive, delicate, or don't have enough features. This study proposed a reprogram mabie control system prototype design and implementation that can be used for African countries, particularly in Tanzania. The proposed integrated controller is a solar-powered system that uses low cost electronic devices to automate drip irrigation and to determine when to irrigate and how much to irrigate. The controller has been tested under African farms and achieved a high level of reliability and maintainability. The controller is a high tech tool that can be reprogrammed or updated wirelessly using a laptop and the data can be downloaded using any android based smartphone. The wireless technology incorporated can be used to transfer instant data of rainfall and soil moisture content. The system automates data cleaning while collecting instant information of the soil moisture, temperature, humidity and rainfall. It can store data at least for seven days.
UT WOS:000380544900030
ER

PT J
AU Ali, K
   Abdelsamie, MM
   Ali, MIH
AF Ali, Kabbir
   Abdelsamie, Mostafa M.
   Ali, Mohamed I. Hassan
TI Toward sustainable energy resource: Integrated concentrated photovoltaic
   and membrane distillation systems for fresh water and electricity
   production
DE CPV-Assisted DCMD; CFD model; Concentration ratio; Seasonal performance;
   Energy analysis
ID HOLLOW-FIBER MEMBRANE; TEMPERATURE-DEPENDENCE; OPERATING PARAMETERS;
   NUMERICAL-SIMULATION; SOLAR-SYSTEMS; PERFORMANCE; FEASIBILITY; SUNS;
   CELL; PV
AB This study introduces and evaluates a novel Concentrated Photovoltaic (CPV)-assisted Direct Contact Membrane Distillation (DCMD) system, examining its efficiency and energy output under varying operational conditions. A Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) model, validated with experimental data, assesses the system's performance at different concentration ratios ranging from 1x to 10x and 25x to 100x, flow patterns (counterflow and parallel flow) at different Reynolds numbers (30-1200). This study investigates the seasonal performance of the CPV-DCMD system, providing valuable insights into its reliability and sustainability throughout the year. Results show increased mass flux and electric power with higher concentration ratios, especially at lower Reynolds numbers. In the counter-flow arrangement, the mass flux increases notably under specific conditions, while seasonal analysis reveals peak flux during summer and autumn afternoons. Electric power output follows a consistent trend across seasons, with high output observed during noon hours. The study demonstrates the system's energy efficiency, with notable energy gain compared to consumption across diverse operational conditions. Overall, the findings provide insights into optimizing the performance of CPV-assisted DCMD systems for sustainable energy generation and water desalination applications.
UT WOS:001308802800001
ER

PT J
AU El Moursi, MS
   Hegazy, R
AF El Moursi, M. S.
   Hegazy, Roshdy
TI Novel Technique for Reducing the High Fault Currents and Enhancing the
   Security of ADWEA Power System
DE ADWEA power system; fault detection and system security; HTS-FCL;
   sequence activation algorithm; transient model
ID CURRENT LIMITER
AB This paper introduces the High Temperature Superconducting Fault Current Limiter (HTS-FCL) as a novel technology for mitigating the high fault currents and enhancing the security of Abu Dhabi Water and Electricity Authority (ADWEA) power system. The transient model of ADWEA power system is developed using the PSCAD/EMTDC simulation program. The transient model is validated in steady state and short circuit analysis with the PSS/E model of ADWEA power system. The proposed model is used to facilitate performing the electromagnetic transient studies for installing the HTS-FCL. The detailed time domain model of the HTS-FCL considering its major components, operation control algorithm, sequence of events and fault detection techniques are developed. The implementation of the HTS-FCLs in the 132-kV network of ADWEA power system is studied. Furthermore, the short-circuit currents levels to utilize all potential system equipments and remove the limitations on the available generation are analyzed. The reduction of the fault currents are evaluated at the buses of suspected high fault currents with installing the HTS-FCL to demonstrate its effectiveness for improving the system performance, reliability and security.
UT WOS:000313965700015
ER

PT J
AU Liu, QP
   Flores-Alsina, X
   Ramin, E
   Gernaey, KV
AF Liu, Qipeng
   Flores-Alsina, Xavier
   Ramin, Elham
   Gernaey, Krist V.
TI Making waves: Power-to-X for the Water Resource Recovery Facilities of
   the future
DE Alkaline water electrolysis (AWE); Biomethanation; Micropollutant
   removal; Power-to-X (PtX); Pure oxygen aeration; Water-energy-nexus
ID PURE-OXYGEN; ENERGY-CONSUMPTION; TREATMENT PLANTS; MICROPOLLUTANTS;
   PERFORMANCE; REMOVAL; COST; AIR
AB The wastewater industry and the energy system are undergoing significant transformations to address climate change and environmental pollution. Green hydrogen, which will be mainly obtained from renewable electricity water electrolysis (Power-to-Hydrogen, PtH), has been considered as an essential energy carrier to neutralize the fluctuations of renewable energy sources. PtH, or Power-to-X (PtX), has been allocated to multiple sectors, including industry, transport and power generation. However, considering its large potential for implementation in the wastewater sector, represented by Water Resource Recovery Facilities (WRRFs), the PtX concept has been largely overlooked in terms of planning and policymaking. This paper proposes a concept to implement PtX at WRRFs, where sourcing of water, utilization of the oxygen by-product, and PtX itself can be sustainable and diversified strategies. Potential value chains of PtX are presented and illustrated in the frame of a WWRF benchmark simulation model, highlighting the applications of oxygen from PtX through pure oxygen aeration and ozone disinfection. Opportunities and challenges are highlighted briefly, and so is the prospective outlook to the future. Ultimately, it is concluded that 'coupling PtX to WRRFs' is a promising solution, which will potentially bring sustainable opportunities for both WRRFs and the energy system. Apart from regulatory and economic challenges, the limitations in coupling PtX to WRRFs mainly come from energy efficiency concerns and the complexity of the integration of the water framework and the energy system.
UT WOS:001238384100001
ER

PT J
AU Al-Sofi, MAK
AF Al-Sofi, Mohammed Abdul-Kareem
TI Environmental, economic and performance merits of triple production of
   water, electricity and renewable energy
AB The author had earlier proposed an Integrated Scheme for Seawater Desalination, Electricity & Renewal Alternative Fuel Production. This presentation, however, highlights Environmental, Economic & Performance Merits of the proposed scheme.
   The scheme suggests, the integration of Beach Well Intakes (BWI), Nano-Filtration (NF), i.e.; Selective ions separation with Pressure Exchanger Energy Recovery (PEER) devices, Solar Ponds Heat Generation (SPHG), Ammonia & Water Steam Turbine Generator (AWSTG), H(2)O Electrolyzers (HOEL), Mixed Fuel Engined Vehicles (MFEV), Fuel Cell Engined Vehicles (FCEV), Hydrogen/Oxygen Gas Turbine Generators (HOGTG), with AWSTG, i.e; Modified Combined Cycle (MCC), Multi Stage Flash (MSF) distillation, Seawater Reverse Osmosis (SWRO), Multi Effect Distillation (MED), Electro-Dialysis Reversal (EDR) and an Innovative Membrane Distillation (TMD) Process. The proposed desalination options are to be put into certain selective hybridization scheme based on site and demand specifics. Moreover, the scheme suggests inclusion of modified (low scaling potential) seawater, hydrogen, oxygen and product water storages plus hydrocarbon, hydrogen & oxygen filling as well as (combustion product pure) water collection stations for vehicles.
   The article goes into verifying the merits of each system and how would their integration serve the objective of environmental, economic and performance merits of the scheme.
UT WOS:000275146100003
ER

PT J
AU Song, HL
   Cai, Y
   Wu, Y
   Lu, YX
   Yang, XL
   Yang, YL
AF Song, Hai-Liang
   Cai, Yun
   Wu, You
   Lu, Yu-Xiang
   Yang, Xiao-Li
   Yang, Yu-Li
TI Enhancing the performance of a bioelectrochemically assisted osmotic
   membrane bioreactor based on reverse diffusion of organic and buffering
   draw solutes
DE Osmotic membrane bioreactor; Buffer solution; Organic solution;
   Bioelectrochemical system; Reverse solute flux
ID WASTE-WATER TREATMENT; SLUDGE CHARACTERISTICS; ANAEROBIC TREATMENT;
   RESOURCE RECOVERY; SALINITY BUILDUP; FLUX STABILITY; OSMOSIS; REUSE;
   OMBR; CELL
AB By combining the merits of bioelectrochemical systems and osmotic membrane bioreactors (OMBRs), bioelectrochemically assisted OMBRs (BEA-OMBRs) can achieve simultaneous water/electricity recovery and salinity mitigation. One of the key challenges is reverse solute flux (RSF). The "negative effect" of RSF was turned into a "beneficial effect" by using a reverse-fluxed draw solute (DS) as a buffering agent or a carbon source supplement. The reverse-fluxed anions from the alkaline buffering DSs (NaHCO3 and PBS) stabilized the anolyte pH and had a positive effect on system performance, such as a high total Coulomb of 278.16-289.80C, a high recovered water of 261.64-277.80 mL, and a high COD removal of 90.91-91.61%. The reverse-fluxed cations from the acidic buffering DS (NH4Cl) promoted the accumulated ammonium to diffuse from the feed/anode to the cathode side due to the production of ammonia gas in the alkaline catholyte. The organic DS exhibited a lower RSF and a lower anolyte conductivity of 5.12-8.49 mS cm(-1). However, the reverse-fluxed organic DSs (glucose and NaOAc) had a negative effect on the electricity generation due to carbon source competition. These results have demonstrated the advantages of the reverse-fluxed DS to enhance the system performance and to encourage further development of BEA-OMBR technology.
UT WOS:000602844900005
ER

PT J
AU Khan, UR
   Ahmed, N
   Naeem, R
   Khudadad, U
   Masud, S
   Khan, NU
   Razzak, JA
AF Khan, Uzma Rahim
   Ahmed, Naveed
   Naeem, Rubaba
   Khudadad, Umerdad
   Masud, Sarwat
   Khan, Nadeem Ullah
   Razzak, Junaid Abdul
TI Heat Emergencies: Perceptions and Practices of Community Members and
   Emergency Department Healthcare Providers in Karachi, Pakistan: A
   Qualitative Study
DE heat emergencies; heat exposure; extreme heat events; perceptions;
   Pakistan
ID EXTREME HEAT; MORTALITY; VULNERABILITY; ADAPTATION; ILLNESS; STRESS;
   EUROPE; SYSTEM; CITIES; WAVE
AB Heat waves are the second leading cause of weather-related morbidity and mortality affecting millions of individuals globally, every year. The aim of this study was to understand the perceptions and practices of community residents and healthcare professionals with respect to identification and treatment of heat emergencies. A qualitative study was conducted using focus group discussions and in-depth interviews, with the residents of an urban squatter settlement, community health workers, and physicians and nurses working in the emergency departments of three local hospitals in Karachi. Data was analyzed using content analysis. The themes that emerged were (1) perceptions of the community on heat emergencies; (2) recognition and early treatment at home; (3) access and quality of care in the hospital; (4) recognition and treatment at the health facility; (5) facility level plan; (6) training. Community members were able to recognize dehydration as a heat emergency. Males, elderly, and school-going children were considered at high risk for heat emergencies. The timely treatment of heat emergencies was widely linked with availability of financial resources. Limited availability of water, electricity, and open public spaces were identified as risk factors for heat emergencies. Home based remedies were reported as the preferred practice for treatment by community members. Both community members and healthcare professionals were cognizant of recognizing heat related emergencies.
UT WOS:000650260300001
ER

PT J
AU Song, MX
   Tang, Q
   Han, C
   Yuan, C
   Yang, QY
   Wei, J
   He, XB
   Lv, XH
   Collins, AL
AF Song, Minxin
   Tang, Qiang
   Han, Chen
   Yuan, Chuan
   Yang, Qingyuan
   Wei, Jie
   He, Xiubin
   Lv, Xiheng
   Collins, Adrian L.
TI Divergent behaviour of soil nutrients imprinted by different land
   management practices in the Three Gorges Reservoir Area, China
DE Reforestation; Cropland abandonment; Land use conversion; Space-time
   substitution approach
ID LITTER DECOMPOSITION; ORGANIC-CARBON; AGRICULTURAL LAND; NITROGEN;
   PHOSPHORUS; RESTORATION; ABANDONMENT; VEGETATION; SEQUESTRATION;
   AVAILABILITY
AB Soil nutrients are essentially regulated by land management practices via modulating biotic element input and metabolism. The Three Gorges Reservoir Area in China was dominated by a farming landscape, but land management has become diversified over recent decades. How these restorative management practices may have affected soil nutrients is not completely understood. In this study, a space-time substitution approach was applied to evaluate soil nutrients and their stoichiometric changes in response to post-farming land management practices. Soil samples (0-10 cm, 10-20 cm, and 20-40 cm) were collected from present-day croplands, cypress plantations, eucalyptus plantations, abandoned croplands, and citrus plantations. Soil organic matter, soil organic carbon, total nitrogen, alkaline hydrolyzed nitrogen, total phosphorus, and available phosphorus were determined. The results showed that soil organic matter and total nitrogen in abandoned croplands, cypress plantations, eucalyptus plantations and citrus plantations were increased by 186% and 190%, 184% and 107%, 45% and 33%, 45% and 54%, respectively, in comparison with those of present-day croplands. Soil nutrients except for total phosphorus decreased with soil depth by exclusion of tillage mixing. Comprehensive soil nutrient index showed that abandoned croplands (0.90) and cypress plantations (0.72) exhibited favorable nutrient recovery capacity. Soil C:P and N:P ratios increased in abandoned croplands, cypress plantations, and eucalyptus plantations. Phosphorus may become a limiting factor for plant growth with prolonged recovery in abandoned croplands, cypress plantations, and eucalyptus plantations, while soil organic matter and total nitrogen deficiencies were exacerbated in citrus plantations and present-day croplands. Therefore, cropland abandonment and reforestation (particularly cypress trees plantation) are recommended options for restoring soil nutrients in the Three Gorges Reservoir Area. (c) 2024 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY- NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
UT WOS:001332312800001
ER

PT J
AU Choi, M
   Lim, J
   Lee, I
   Kim, J
AF Choi, Minsik
   Lim, Jonghun
   Lee, Inkyu
   Kim, Junghwan
TI Carbon Neutral Design of Waste Energy Recovery System for LNG Power
   Plant Using Organic Rankine Cycle
ID LIQUEFIED NATURAL-GAS; POSTCOMBUSTION CO2 CAPTURE; TECHNOECONOMIC
   ANALYSIS; EXERGY ANALYSIS; OPTIMIZATION; COAL; PERFORMANCE; INTEGRATION;
   COST; CONFIGURATION
AB In liquefied natural gas (LNG) power plants, a significant amount of heat and cold energy is consumed to capture and store carbon dioxide (CO2) emitted during the combustion of fossil fuels. The proposed system addresses this problem by utilizing the temperature difference between waste heat and cold energy as a power source to generate electricity. In this study, a novel waste heat and cold energy recovery system for a postcombustion LNG power plant was developed using an organic Rankine cycle (ORC). To design the proposed system, a process model was developed with the following five parts: (i) LNG vaporization, (ii) natural gas combined cycle (NGCC), (iii) amine scrubbing, (iv) CO2 liquefaction, and (v) CO2 injection. In the proposed system, waste LNG cold energy is used for lean amine cooling and CO2 liquefaction. The liquefied CO2 was pressurized to meet the injection pressure requirements. The ORC uses high-temperature exhaust gas from the NGCC as the heat source and high-pressure liquefied CO2 as the heat sink. The economic feasibility of the proposed system was demonstrated by an economic assessment, with the net profit evaluated by a sensitivity analysis considering variations in water, electricity, and equipment costs. Consequently, the proposed system exhibited an 18.6% increase in net power production compared to the conventional system. In addition, the net profit of the proposed system exhibited a 76.7% increase compared to the conventional system, confirming its economic feasibility.
UT WOS:001248638800001
ER

PT C
AU Wang, YQ
   Lior, N
AF Wang, Yongqing
   Lior, Noam
GP ASME
TI Performance analysis of combined humidified gas turbine power generation
DE integrated power and water system; humidified gas turbine cycle;
   multi-effect thermal vapor compression desalination
ID DESALINATION PLANTS; WATER RECOVERY; COGENERATION; SYSTEMS; HEAT
AB Humidified gas turbines (HGT) have been identified as an promising way of producing power and their use in combined power and water desalination systems is analyzed, employing energy and exergy performance criteria. Based on two representative HGT cycles, the steam-injected gas turbine (STIG) cycle and evaporative gas turbine (EvGT) cycle, two combined systems are proposed. After analyzing the characteristic of desalination units, a multi-effect thermal vapor compression (METVC) unit run by the exhaust heat of the power cycle is chosen to produce fresh water from seawater for both general use and the HGT humidification. Some of the main results are: the fuel consumption of water production in a STIG-based combined system is about 45% of a water-only unit, and that in a EvGT-based system it is 31%-54%; compared with the individual power-only and water-only units, the fuel savings of the two combined system are 12% -28% and 10% -21 %, respectively; a water production gain of more than 15% can be obtained by using a direct-contact seawater-gas heat exchanger to recover the stack heat; and the two gas combined systems are more flexible in their power-to-water ratio than currently used dual-purpose systems.
UT WOS:000243098600058
ER

PT C
AU Firdhous, M
   Hassan, S
   Ghazali, O
AF Firdhous, Mohamed
   Hassan, Suhaidi
   Ghazali, Osman
GP IEEE
TI Hysteresis-based Robust Trust Computing Mechanism for Cloud Computing
DE trust computing; cloud computing; hysteresis; quality of service
AB Cloud computing has been the new paradigm in distributed systems where users can access computing resources and pay only for usage similar to other utilities like electricity, water, gas and telephony. Service Level Agreements signed at the beginning between the clients and service providers stipulate conditions of the services including the QoS requirements. Trust can be used to quantify the QoS levels of providers and rank them according to their performances. Hence trust management systems can play an important role in identifying the right service provider who would maintain the QoS at the levels required by the clients. Researchers have proposed several trust computing mechanisms based on different techniques and trust metrics on the literature. Almost all of these mechanisms increment or decrement the trust scores monotonously based on the inputs. This is a major vulnerability that can be exploited by adversaries to force the trust scores towards extreme values. In this paper, the authors propose a novel trust computing mechanism based on hysteresis function which requires extra efforts to force the output from one end to the other. Hysteresis functions are immune to small changes and hence can be used to protect the system from sporadic attacks. The proposed mechanism has been tested using simulations. The test results show that the trust scores computed using the proposed mechanism are more robust and stable in the face of attacks than other mechanisms.
UT WOS:000315687200136
ER

PT J
AU Nuernbergk, DM
   Rorres, C
AF Nuernbergk, Dirk M.
   Rorres, Chris
TI Analytical Model for Water Inflow of an Archimedes Screw Used in
   Hydropower Generation
DE Archimedes screw; Water power; Hydropower plant
AB Archimedes screws have become increasingly popular throughout Europe to drive hydropower plants using residual flow from a stream or river. This heightened usage of such screws during the past few years is attributable to their robustness, simplicity, and fish friendliness. Presently the dimensioning of a hydropower site equipped with an Archimedes screw is dependent mainly on the experience of the design engineer. This is so because there is no appropriate theory for the optimal hydraulic design of screws used at hydropower sites, especially for the water-inflow conditions. In this paper, a new analytical model for the water inflow is derived, and the optimal values of the inflow parameters are determined to achieve a planned inflow to the screw. DOI: 10.1061/(ASCE)HY.1943-7900.0000661. (C) 2013 American Society of Civil Engineers.
UT WOS:000316557800011
ER

PT J
AU Hua, ZH
   Cao, YP
   Zhou, B
   Or, SW
   Yang, F
   Li, CB
   Wang, ZQ
   Sun, YX
   Yu, XB
AF Hua, Zhihao
   Cao, Yingping
   Zhou, Bin
   Or, Siu Wing
   Yang, Fan
   Li, Canbing
   Wang, Ziqiang
   Sun, Yuexin
   Yu, Xiangbin
TI Hyperbolic PDE-constrained decision-dependent robust planning of
   hydrogen energy storage systems for resilient electricity-water-gas
   nexus
DE Water-energy nexus; Distribution network; Hydrogen energy storage
   system; PDE-constrained optimization; Decision-dependent uncertainty;
   Robust planning
ID NETWORKS; POWER; RELAXATIONS; CHAIN
AB This paper proposes a decision-dependent robust planning method for hydrogen energy storage systems (HESSs) to enhance the resilience of the electricity-water-gas nexus (EWGN) under exogenous and endogenous uncer tainties. In this method, the coordinated operations of power distribution networks, water distribution networks (WDNs), and gas distribution networks (GDNs), enhanced by HESSs, are incorporated to mitigate multi-energy load shedding. Moreover, hyperbolic partial differential equations (HPDEs) are employed to accurately represent the slow dynamics of water and gas pipeline flows in WDNs and GDNs, and then an HPDE-constrained HESS planning model is formulated to optimize the siting and sizing of HESSs. A two-stage stochastic-robust optimiza tion strategy is developed to address exogenous and endogenous uncertainties so that the resulting HESS plan can hedge against the worst-case realization of decision-dependent hydrogen fuel cell vehicle refueling demand within each probabilistic exogenous scenario. Furthermore, a tailored solution algorithm, combining numerical discretization, piecewise linear relaxations, and parametric column-and-constraint generation, is devised to han dle the proposed HPDE-constrained HESS planning model. Comparative studies show that the proposed method reduces the total load shedding cost by 81.66% compared with the case without HESS planning, and achieves a further 33.33% improvement in investment return over conventional planning methods without considering endogenous uncertainties.
UT WOS:001826903100001
ER

PT J
AU Lan, WC
   Liu, X
   Ye, K
   Xie, MN
   Chen, LX
AF Lan, Wenchao
   Liu, Xi
   Ye, Kai
   Xie, Meina
   Chen, Longxiang
TI Comprehensive thermodynamic and economic analysis of an LNG cold energy
   recovery system using organic Rankine cycle and freezing-centrifugal
   desalination for power and water cogeneration
DE Freezing desalination; Centrifugal desalination; Slurry ice; LNG cold
   energy recovery
ID SEAWATER; OPTIMIZATION; DESIGN
AB In this study, the LNG cold energy recovery combined with a freezing-centrifugal desalination system is proposed. The thermodynamic and economic analysis is also carried out of the proposed system. To verify the results of sea ice centrifugation process, experimental analysis of sea ice centrifugal desalination is presented based on different types of sea ice: slurry and solid, which are prepared by the method of suspension crystallization method and progressive freezing method, respectively. The experimental outcomes demonstrated that higher rotation speeds and longer centrifugal times enhanced the desalination rate but resulted in decreased freshwater yield in both slurry and solid ice. For the slurry sea ice, achieving a rotation speed of 5000 rpm and a centrifugal time exceeding 3.0 min resulted in melted water with a salinity level below 0.05%, satisfying the standards of drinking water. Moreover, the unit product cost, payback period, and unit cost of CO2 emission reduction for the proposed system are 0.49 $/t, 3.25 years and 18.92 kg/$, respectively. While the unit product cost, payback period, and unit cost of CO2 emission reduction for the conventional system are about 0.84 $/t, 4.80 years, and 15.66 kg/$, respectively. Hence, the proposed system shows higher economic and environmental performance.
UT WOS:001247076000001
ER

PT J
AU Yin, RQ
   Varga, L
AF Yin, Ruoqing
   Varga, Liz
TI Machine learning for resilience analysis: a review of systems under
   cyberattacks
DE Machine learning; Deep learning; Reinforcement learning; Cyberattack;
   Cyber physical systems; Resilience
ID FALSE DATA INJECTION; CYBER-PHYSICAL SYSTEMS; DATA POISONING ATTACKS;
   COMPONENT ANALYSIS; STATE ESTIMATION; NEURAL-NETWORKS; POWER-SYSTEMS;
   PROTECTION; DEFENSE; DEFINITIONS
AB Intelligent cyber-physical systems (CPS) are increasingly exposed to sophisticated cyberattacks, yet existing machine learning (ML)-focused surveys provide only fragmented coverage of the resilience lifecycle. They often separate attack modelling from defence strategies, overlook cross-sector insights, and lack clear evaluation benchmarks, limiting practical applicability. This review offers the first lifecycle-oriented synthesis of MLenabled CPS resilience, covering detection, defence, recovery, and adaptation. It integrates diverse ML-based attack techniques with corresponding resilience mechanisms and provides a comparative analysis across two critical CPS sectors-power and water-to highlight shared vulnerabilities and sector-specific behaviours. The review further distils key limitations in current ML approaches, including data scarcity, interpretability challenges, and limited real-world validation. Finally, it proposes five actionable research directions and resilience quantification considerations to guide future development of robust and transferable ML-based CPS resilience frameworks.
UT WOS:001649355300002
ER

PT J
AU Zare, V
   Mahmoudi, SMS
   Yari, M
AF Zare, V.
   Mahmoudi, S. M. S.
   Yari, M.
TI An exergoeconomic investigation of waste heat recovery from the Gas
   Turbine-Modular Helium Reactor (GT-MHR) employing an ammonia-water
   power/cooling cycle
DE Ammonia-water mixture; Combined cycle; Exergoeconomics; GT-MHR;
   Power/cooling cogeneration; Optimization
ID THERMOECONOMIC ANALYSIS; ECONOMIC-EVALUATION; POWER-GENERATION;
   OPTIMIZATION; DESALINATION; SYSTEM; MIXTURES; DESIGN
AB A detailed exergoeconomic analysis is performed for a combined cycle in which the waste heat from the Gas Turbine-Modular Helium Reactor (GT-MHR) is recovered by an ammonia-water power/cooling cogeneration system. Parametric investigations are conducted to evaluate the effects of decision variables on the performances of the GT-MHR and combined cycles. The performances of these cycles are then optimized from the viewpoints of first law, second law and exergoeconomics. It is found that, combining the GT-MHR with ammonia-water cycle not only enhances the first and second law efficiencies of the GT-MHR, but also it improves the cycle performance from the exergoeconomic perspective. The results show that, when the optimization is based on the exergoeconomics, the unit cost of products is reduced by 5.4% in combining the two mentioned cycles. This is achieved with a just about 1% increase in total investment cost rate since the helium mass flow in the combined cycle is lower than that in the GT-MHR alone. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000327685000038
ER

PT J
AU Hackl, J
   Lam, JC
   Heitzler, M
   Adey, BT
   Hurni, L
AF Hackl, Jurgen
   Lam, Juan Carlos
   Heitzler, Magnus
   Adey, Bryan T.
   Hurni, Lorenz
TI Estimating network related risks: A methodology and an application in
   the transport sector
ID CLIMATE-CHANGE; IMPACT ASSESSMENT; NATURAL HAZARDS; EUROPEAN ALPS;
   FLOOD; EXPOSURE; SYSTEMS; INFRASTRUCTURES; DISRUPTION; EVOLUTION
AB Networks such as transportation, water, and power are critical lifelines for society. Managers plan and execute interventions to guarantee the operational state of their networks under various circumstances, including after the occurrence of (natural) hazard events. Creating an intervention program demands knowing the probable direct and indirect consequences (i.e., risk) of the various hazard events that could occur in order to be able to mitigate their effects. This paper introduces a methodology to support network managers in the quantification of the risk related to their networks. The methodology is centered on the integration of the spatial and temporal attributes of the events that need to be modeled to estimate the risk. Furthermore, the methodology supports the inclusion of the uncertainty of these events and the propagation of these uncertainties throughout the risk modeling. The methodology is implemented through a modular simulation engine that supports the updating and swapping of models according to the needs of network managers. This work demonstrates the usefulness of the methodology and simulation engine through an application to estimate the potential impact of floods and mudflows on a road network located in Switzerland. The application includes the modeling of (i) multiple time-varying hazard events; (ii) their physical and functional effects on network objects (i.e., bridges and road sections); (iii) the functional interrelationships of the affected objects; (iv) the resulting probable consequences in terms of expected costs of restoration, cost of traffic changes, and duration of network disruption; and (v) the restoration of the network.
UT WOS:000442772100001
ER

PT J
AU Lubega, WN
   Stillwell, AS
AF Lubega, William Naggaga
   Stillwell, Ashlynn S.
TI Maintaining electric grid reliability under hydrologic drought and heat
   wave conditions
DE Energy-water nexus; Environmental policy; Rule curves; Electricity-water
   nexus; Thermal pollution
ID ENERGY-WATER NEXUS; POWER-GENERATION; TEMPERATURE; METHODOLOGY;
   REGRESSION; TRADEOFFS; MODEL
AB During droughts and heat waves, thermal power plants that discharge heated effluent into rivers are often granted thermal variances permitting them to exceed the temperature restrictions imposed on effluent for protection of local aquatic ecosystems. These thermal variances are often justified as necessary for maintaining electricity reliability, particularly as heat waves typically cause an increase in electricity demand. However, current practice lacks tools for the development of grid-scale operational policies that specify the minimal thermal variances required to ensure reliable electricity supply. Creating these policies requires consideration of characteristics of individual power plants, topology and characteristics of the electricity grid, and locations of power plants within the river basin. We develop a methodology for creating such policies that considers these necessary factors. Conceptually, the operational policies developed are similar to the widely used rule curves of reservoir management, as we develop optimal rules for different hydrological and meteorological conditions. The rules are conditioned on leading modes of the ambient hydrological and meteorological conditions at the different power plant locations, leveraging the statistical correlation that exists between these conditions due to geographical proximity and hydrological connectedness. Heat dissipation in rivers and cooling ponds is modeled using the equilibrium temperature concept. Optimal rules are determined through a linear optimization with stochastic costs. We illustrate the methodology with a representative electricity grid model of eight power plants in Illinois that were granted thermal variances in the summer of 2012. Our methodology can facilitate cooperative decision making between environmental agencies, power grid operators, and power plant operators. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000419813100042
ER

PT C
AU Lee, YJ
   Hu, ZH
   Hu, JP
   Harounian, A
   Hudson, MB
   Hudson, KS
   Eguchi, RT
AF Lee, Yajie
   Hu, Zhenghui
   Hu, Jianping
   Harounian, Alek
   Hudson, Martin B.
   Hudson, Kenneth S.
   Eguchi, Ronald T.
BE Davis, CA
   Yu, K
   Taciroglu, E
TI Probabilistic Seismic Risk Evaluation of the City of Los Angeles Water
   System Pipeline Network
ID FAULT DISPLACEMENT HAZARD
AB To develop seismically resilient water systems, it is essential that the damage potential of a pipeline system be quantified for future earthquakes. In this study, a large stochastic catalog of earthquake simulations that adapt the Uniform California Earthquake Rupture Forecast Version 3 (UCERF3) model was used to represent the regional seismicity of the Los Angeles Basin. Random event footprints for earthquake simulations were constructed by utilizing the NGA West 2 ground motion models. This set of earthquake simulations was utilized to evaluate system-level consequences for the City of Los Angeles water pipeline network, measured by the total number of pipeline repairs and subsequent repair costs and times due to strong ground shaking and ground deformations. These estimates of damage and impact were based on empirical pipeline fragility models and restoration data from two past events that affected the water system in the past (1971 San Fernando and 1994 Northridge earthquakes). System-level performance was then evaluated at various targeted probability levels and influential seismic sources were identified. This study was performed as part of a long-term program administered by the City of Los Angeles Department of Water and Power to quantify and ultimately enhance the seismic resilience of all city trunklines and distribution pipelines.
UT WOS:000905068100073
ER

PT J
AU Mello, CR
   Guzman, JA
   Vieira, NPA
   Viola, MR
   Beskow, S
   Guo, L
   Alvarenga, LA
   Rodrigues, AF
AF Mello, Carlos R.
   Guzman, Jorge A.
   Vieira, Nayara P. A.
   Viola, Marcelo R.
   Beskow, Samuel
   Guo, Li
   Alvarenga, Livia A.
   Rodrigues, Andre F.
TI Mitigating severe hydrological droughts in the Brazilian tropical
   high-land region: A novel land use strategy under climate change
DE Droughts; Climate change; Land use; Sustainability; Hydrological
   modeling
ID GRANDE RIVER-BASIN; ATLANTIC FOREST; CHANGE IMPACTS; WATER-BALANCE;
   MODEL; PERFORMANCE; INDEX; SIMULATION; CATCHMENT
AB Severe droughts have significantly increased in frequency, magnitude, and intensity over the past decade, particularly impacting tropical and subtropical regions. Southeast Brazil exemplifies this trend, where severe hydrological droughts threaten the economy and society. We propose a novel approach to assess the impact of land use and climate change on severe hydrological droughts by integrating streamflow simulations with the Standard Hydrological Index (SHI), which is based on variations in water storage within the basin. To test our approach, the Lavras Simulation of Hydrology (LASH) model was applied to sixty-nine sub-basins in the upper Grande River basin, Southeast Brazil. We defined severe droughts as events where SHI <-1.5, calculating threshold water storage (Sthreshold) for the baseline period (1961-2005) to evaluate the impacts of land use and climate change scenarios. Land use scenarios were designed to maintain stable agricultural areas, while climate change scenarios (RCP4.5 and RCP8.5) were projected through 2060. The findings indicated that forest recovery significantly reduced severe hydrological drought frequency, whereas deforestation intensified it. Sub-basins altered by human activity showed more susceptibility to climate change. However, forested sub-basins were notably impacted by land use changes, mainly from pasture replacing Atlantic Forest. Highlighting deforestation as a critical driver for regional hydrological vulnerability, our method underscores the urgent need for effective land use management and conservation strategies of Atlantic Forest to mitigate the risk of severe droughts, regardless of the climate change pathways. (c) 2025 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
UT WOS:001519163200001
ER

PT J
AU Kurniawan, TA
   Othman, MHD
   Liang, X
   Ayub, M
   Goh, HH
   Kusworo, TD
   Mohyuddin, A
   Chew, KW
AF Kurniawan, Tonni Agustiono
   Othman, Mohd Hafiz Dzarfan
   Liang, Xue
   Ayub, Muhammad
   Goh, Hui Hwang
   Kusworo, Tutuk Djoko
   Mohyuddin, Ayesha
   Chew, Kit Wayne
TI Microbial Fuel Cells (MFC): A Potential Game-Changer in Renewable Energy
   Development
DE carbon neutrality; circular economy; decarbonization; net-zero; resource
   recovery
ID WASTE-WATER TREATMENT; PHOSPHORUS RECOVERY; ELECTRICITY PRODUCTION;
   STRUVITE; REMOVAL; PHOSPHATE; DENITRIFICATION; OPTIMIZATION;
   DEGRADATION; PERFORMANCE
AB Currently, access to electricity in the cities of the Global South is so limited that electrification remains low in rural areas. Unless properly tackled, one-third of the world's cities will suffer from energy scarcity. The emergence of microbial fuel cell (MFC) technology accelerates the deployment of decentralized and sustainable energy solutions that can address the looming energy shortage. This review consolidates scattered knowledge into one article about the performance of MFC in optimizing electricity generation from phosphorus (P)-laden wastewater, while removing the target nutrient from wastewater simultaneously. It is obvious from a literature survey of 108 published articles (1999-2022) that the applications of MFC for building a self-powered municipal water treatment system represents an important breakthrough, as this enables water treatment operators to generate electricity without affecting the atmospheric balance of CO2. Using a pyrite-based wetland MFC, about 91% of P was removed after operating 180 days, while generating power output of 48 A/m(2). Unlike other techniques, MFCs utilize bacteria that act as micro-reactors and allow substrates to be oxidized completely. The Earth's tiniest inhabitants can efficiently transform the chemical energy of organic matter in unused wastewater either into hydrogen gas or electricity. This facilitates wastewater treatment plants powering themselves in daily operation or selling electricity on the market. This MFC technology radically changes how to treat wastewater universally. By exploring this direction along the water-energy-food nexus, MFC technology could transform wastewater treatment plants into a key sustainability tool in the energy sector. This suggests that MFCs provide a practical solution that addresses the need of global society for clean water and electricity simultaneously.
UT WOS:000904155000001
ER

PT J
AU Larkin, J
   Ligabue, G
   Morisi, N
   Alfano, G
   Martínez-Cadenas, R
   Fehintola, A
   Steinbach, I
   Yasar, A
   Arias-Guillén, M
   Canals, FM
   Gerritsen, KGF
   Mortimer, F
   Donati, G
   Duane, B
AF Larkin, James
   Ligabue, Giulia
   Morisi, Niccolo
   Alfano, Gaetano
   Martinez-Cadenas, Rodrigo
   Fehintola, Abass
   Steinbach, Ingeborg
   Yasar, Aycan
   Arias-Guillen, Marta
   Canals, Francesc Maduell
   Gerritsen, Karin G. F.
   Mortimer, Francis
   Donati, Gabriele
   Duane, Brett
TI Comparing environmental footprints of haemodialysis and online
   haemodiafiltration in Italy
DE Haemodialysis; Haemodiafiltration; Life cycle assessment; Environmental
   impact; Carbon footprint; Energy use; Water consumption; Sustainable
   kidney care
ID MORTALITY
AB BackgroundHaemodialysis (HD) and online haemodiafiltration (OLHDF) are the main in-centre treatments for kidney failure. Both rely on high water and energy use and produce substantial greenhouse gas emissions. OLHDF provides superior solute clearance and improved survival compared with high-flux HD, but its environmental burden remains less defined. Clarifying these differences supports evidence-based and sustainable treatment decisions.MethodsA process-based life cycle assessment (LCA) was performed at the Nephrology, Dialysis and Kidney Transplant Unit, AOU Policlinico di Modena, Italy, in 2024, following ISO 14040 and 14,044 standards. The functional unit was one patient year of treatment, equal to 156 sessions. System boundaries included procurement, water treatment, session operations, travel and waste management. Modelling used OpenLCA with Ecoinvent 3.11 and the Italian electricity grid factor of 0.25 kg CO2 per kWh. Scenarios assessed HD-only, OLHDF-only and the real-world Modena treatment mix. Sensitivity analysis varied the share of OLHDF, session frequency, grid intensity and reverse-osmosis (RO) recovery rate and included a reduced-flow OLHDF prescription.ResultsThe annual footprint was 4469 kg CO2-eq, 60,290 MJ and 1364 m3 world-eq deprived water per patient year. HD generated 4427 kg CO2-eq and OLHDF 4548 kg CO2-eq, reflecting slightly higher electricity and water consumption and greater plastic use in OLHDF. Travel contributed 71% of total emissions and procurement 21%. Sensitivity analysis showed changes in RO efficiency and electricity mix had stronger effects than treatment type.ConclusionsHD and OLHDF have comparable environmental profiles. Clinical outcomes should drive modality choice, while sustainability gains depend on improving transport, water recovery, energy management and renewable integration.
UT WOS:001678414000001
ER

PT J
AU Kirkiç, AP
   Luba, NI
AF Kirkic, Ayse Perihan
   Luba, Nilima Islam
TI Migration decision making in MENA: Role of food insecurity, water, and
   energy scarcity
DE Food insecurity; Water scarcity; Electricity outage; Climate change;
   MENA
ID MIDDLE-EAST; CLIMATE-CHANGE; UNEMPLOYMENT; INTENTIONS; POLLUTION;
   SECURITY; NEXUS
AB This study examines the role of environmental and socioeconomic factors in shaping migration intentions among citizens in six Middle East and North Africa (MENA) countries using Arab Barometer data (2021-2024; N approximate to 25,000). While existing research has emphasized political and economic drivers, this study focuses on the water-energy-food (WEF) nexus and individual-level perceptions of climate change. Using multilevel logistic regression models, the results show that climate-driven scarcities, such as food insecurity (OR approximate to 1.30, p < 0.01, ME similar to 5 percentage point), electricity outages (OR approximate to 1.17, p < 0.01, ME similar to 3 percentage point), and water scarcity (OR approximate to 1.12, p < 0.01, ME similar to 2 percentage point) are significantly associated with higher migration intentions. Once material constraints are considered, climate concern does not show a statistically significant association with migration intention. The interaction and country-specific models further complicate this pattern. Resource-related stressors vary across demographic groups and geopolitical conditions, with food insecurity emerging as the most consistent WEF-related correlate across countries, while electricity and water outages remain more context-specific. These findings suggest that migration intentions are driven less by environmental perceptions and more by the lived experience of resource insecurity. Overall, this research contributes by integrating climate perceptions and WEF-related conditions within a unified individual-level framework, highlighting how environmental stress interacts with socioeconomic vulnerability to shape migration decision-making in the MENA region.
UT WOS:001835110100001
ER

PT C
AU Saurav, K
   Choudhury, AR
   Chandan, V
   Lingman, P
   Linder, N
AF Saurav, Kumar
   Choudhury, Anamitra Roy
   Chandan, Vikas
   Lingman, Peter
   Linder, Nicklas
GP IEEE
TI Building Modelling Methodologies for Virtual District Heating and
   Cooling Networks
AB District heating and cooling systems (DHC) are a proven energy solution that has been deployed for many years in a growing number of urban areas worldwide. They comprise a variety of technologies responsible for the production and supply of heating, cooling, domestic hot water and electricity. Although the benefits of DHC systems are significant and have been widely acclaimed, yet the full potential of modern DHC systems remains largely untapped. There are several opportunities for improving the efficiency of DHC systems, which will enable the exploitation of renewable resources, waste heat recovery, etc., in order to facilitate the transition towards next generation of DHC systems. This motivated the need for modelling these complex systems.
   Large-scale modelling of DHC-networks is challenging, as it has several components interacting with each other. In this paper we present two methodologies to model the consumer buildings. These models will be further integrated with network model and the control system layer to create a virtual test bed for DHC system. The model is validated using data collected from the DHC system located at Lulea, Sweden. The test bed will be then used for simulating various test cases such as peak energy reduction, overall demand reduction etc. prior to real world testing.
UT WOS:000434797800064
ER

PT J
AU Maheshwari, GP
   Al-Murad, R
AF Maheshwari, GP
   Al-Murad, R
TI Impact of energy-conservation measures on cooling load and
   air-conditioning plant capacity
DE energy conservation; energy simulation computer program
AB Energy conservation measures have been in practice in Kuwait since 1983, through a well defined code of practice enforced by the Ministry of Electricity and Water (MEW). Additional energy-efficient products and techniques developed thereafter, however, have not been introduced as the electricity is highly subsidized and the code has not been modified, Application of some of the cost-effective energy-conservation measures and use of cool storage for peak-power shaving have been carried out as a demonstration project in a two-storeyed building housing the Center for Speech and Audio Therapy (CSAT). As a first step, the cooling load of the building was reestimated using an energy simulation computer program and proper design specifications. It was found to be 31.4% lower than the original estimated load of 161.3 tons of refrigeration (RT, 1 RT = 3.517 kW of heat absorption), which is equal to 567.3 kW, Use of energy-efficient windows and cooling recovery units were found to be cost-effective and resulted in a final building load of 64.5 RT. Finally, ice storage was incorporated to meet 50% of the peak cooling-load. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000168286800005
ER

PT J
AU Bair, RA
   Ozcan, OO
   Calabria, JL
   Dick, GH
   Yeh, DH
AF Bair, Robert A.
   Ozcan, Onur O.
   Calabria, Jorge L.
   Dick, George H.
   Yeh, Daniel H.
TI Feasibility of anaerobic membrane bioreactors (AnMBR) for onsite
   sanitation and resource recovery (nutrients, energy and water) in urban
   slums
DE anaerobic membrane bioreactor; AnMBR; public toilets; slum sanitation
ID WASTE; SELECTION; DIGESTION; SYSTEMS
AB Slums are challenging locations for sanitation technologies. High population densities, a lack of water and electricity infrastructure, and space constraints combine to ensure that many traditional waste treatment technologies fail when implemented in this context. This paper proposes the use of anaerobic membrane bioreactors (AnMBRs) for slum sanitation. AnMBRs allow for localized water reuse, high quality treatment, and energy production at the point of treatment. A water, energy, nutrient, and mass balance was conducted on a theoretical AnMBR directly coupled to a public toilet. The combined system would be capable of recycling its water for use in toilet flushing and would be capable of providing enough energy to power both the toilet and AnMBR operation. The addition of food waste to the feed would help to ensure process stability and energy production by the AnMBR. Ammonia accumulation within the system would have to be managed through struvite precipitation, ion exchange, oxidation, plant uptake or other means. Generated biogas can be converted into heat and/or electricity using small scale gas generators. AnMBR technology has high potential for success in slum settings, if considerations for maintenance and supplies are made as part of the design and system delivery.
UT WOS:000374289500010
ER

PT J
AU Oparaku, LA
   Iwar, RT
AF Oparaku, L. Alimonu
   Iwar, R. Terungwa
TI Relationships between average gully depths and widths on geological
   sediments underlying the Idah-Ankpa Plateau of the North Central Nigeria
DE Gully; Geological sediments; Vulnerability to erosion; Gully depth;
   Gully width
ID EROSION
AB This study investigated the relationships between the average gully depth and the average width on two of the three geological sediments underlying the Ida-Ankpa Plateau of the North Central Nigeria. Gully length (L), average depth (D), and average width (W) were measured on 37 and 5 gully samples formed respectively on the Ajalli Sandstones' (AS) and the Upper Coal Measures' (UCM) geological sediments. From these, the average volume (V), average cross sectional area (A), and average form factor (W/D) were computed. These sets of variables (L, D, W, V, A, and W/D), a total of six for each gully, were analysed using correlation analysis and the sample bivariate regression to examine the relationships between D and W on the two geological units. Results show that D correlates poorly, positively, and significantly with W on the highly erodible AS (R = 0.565, P < 0.01), whereas the relationship is stronger, positive, and significant on the more resistant UCM (R = 0.997, P < 0.01). On the AS, D is a poor predictor of W with the relationship: W-1 = 3.670 + 0.355D(1) (R-2 = 0.319), whereas it is a near-perfect predictor on the UCM (W-2 = 1.667 + 0.689D(2), R-2 = 0.994). The results of the study suggest that for gullies cut on deep, homogeneous formations, the correlation of D with W diminishes with increasing vulnerability to erosion of the sediments, whereas the effectiveness of D as a predictive tool of W increases with the resistance of the sediments to erosion. (C) 2018 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation and China Water and Power Press.
UT WOS:000430727100005
ER

PT J
AU Hakobyan, A
   Hakobyan, A
   Diloyan, A
   Mailova, E
AF Hakobyan, Arsen
   Hakobyan, Arusyak
   Diloyan, Alexander
   Mailova, Eleonora
TI Membrane device with integrated photoelectric system for producing
   drinking water and electricity
DE Membrane distillation; Desalination of seawater; Combined solar device;
   PV
ID SEAWATER DESALINATION; DISTILLATION; MODULES; DESIGN; GAS
AB This work is devoted to the design and testing of new type membrane devices, which are provided with photoelectric systems. The purpose is to design a system with the multiple recovery of solar energy, which can be used to produce drinking water, from seawater by the membrane distillation (MD) process, and electricity, using photoelectric elements. The schemes of the combined portable devices are presented. Photoelectric elements, which are integrated into the constructed modules, carry new functions, not limited to the production of electricity. The testing of the designed small pilot devices was conducted in field conditions, powered by solar energy, independent from electricity and other fuel sources. A hydrophobic, microporous, commercially available membranes from the Millipore Corporation (Billerica, MA) were used for the desalination of seawater. The dependence of the MD solar desalination device productivity on desalination stage number, the specific productivity of drinking water and electric power depending on different hours during the day, and the heat losses from the external surfaces of devices were investigated. Combined production of two products provides the opportunity to increase the efficiency of devices, to minimize the demand of ground area for the devices and to lower the cost of the products.
UT WOS:000415818300005
ER

PT J
AU Almehmadi, FA
   Najib, A
   Al-Ansary, H
AF Almehmadi, Fahad Awjah
   Najib, Abdullah
   Al-Ansary, Hany
TI Advancing residential energy and water solutions in Riyadh, Saudi
   Arabia: A cogeneration system with dynamic load management for optimized
   electricity and water production
DE Cogeneration systems; Membrane distillation; Waste heat recovery;
   Sustainable energy production; Residential energy efficiency; Load
   management strategy
ID CONTACT MEMBRANE DISTILLATION; HEAT
AB This paper introduces a novel cogeneration power plant system coupled with Direct Contact Membrane Distillation (DCMD), specifically designed to meet the energy and water needs of residential complexes that include 18 apartments. Integrating solar collectors, a turbine, a condenser, a mixing chamber, a process heater, and a control valve, the proposed system optimizes energy distribution and load management. It is designed to utilize excess steam for DCMD processes when electrical production exceeds residential demand and harnesses waste heat from the process heater to enhance brackish water distillation efficiency. This innovative approach results in the production of 25,140 m3/year from DCMD, demonstrating a highly efficient method of converting waste heat into a valuable resource for desalination. Capable of supplying 409 MW annually, this system covers 36% of the total energy demand for residential complexes. Thus, it addresses a significant share of energy and water needs for 18 apartments and offers a scalable, efficient approach to meld sustainable energy production with residential living requirements, marking a significant stride in sustainable water and energy production for residential buildings.
UT WOS:001400155400001
ER

PT J
AU Lototskyy, M
   Nyamsi, SN
   Pasupathi, S
   Wærnhus, W
   Vik, A
   Ilea, C
   Yartys, V
AF Lototskyy, Mykhaylo
   Nyamsi, Serge Nyallang
   Pasupathi, Sivakumar
   Waernhus, War
   Vik, Arild
   Ilea, Crina
   Yartys, Volodymyr
TI A concept of combined cooling, heating and power system utilising solar
   power and based on reversible solid oxide fuel cell and metal hydrides
DE CCHP; Tri-generation; Reversible solid oxide fuel cell; Hydrogen
   storage; Metal hydride heat pump
ID TRIGENERATION SYSTEM; PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS; HYDROGEN STORAGE;
   ECONOMIC-ANALYSIS; EXERGY ANALYSES; ENERGY-STORAGE; GAS-TURBINE; SOFC;
   DESIGN; COGENERATION
AB In energy systems, multi-generation including co-generation and tri-generation has gained tremendous interest in the recent years as an effective way of waste heat recovery. Solid oxide fuel cells are efficient power plants that not only generate electricity with high energy efficiency but also produce high quality waste heat that can be further used for hot and chilled water production. In this work, we present a concept of combined cooling, heating and power (CCHP) energy system which uses solar power as a primary energy source and utilizes a reversible solid oxide fuel cell (R-SOFC) for producing hydrogen and generating electricity in the electrolyser (SOEC) and fuel cell (SOFC) modes, respectively. The system uses "high temperature" metal hydride (MH) for storage of both hydrogen and heat, as well as "low temperature" MH's for the additional heat management, including hot water supply, residential heating during winter time, or cooling/air conditioning during summer time.
   The work presents evaluation of energy balances of the system components, as well as heat-and-mass transfer modelling of MH beds in metal hydride hydrogen and heat storage system (MHHS; MgH2), MH hydrogen compressor (MHHC; AB(5); A = La + Mm, B= Ni + Co + Al + Mn) and MH heat pump (MHHP; AB(2); A = Ti + Zr, B=Mn + Cr + Ni + Fe). A case study of a 3 kWe R-SOFC is analysed and discussed. The results showed that the energy efficiencies are 69.4 and 72.4% in electrolyser and fuel cell modes, respectively. The round-trip COP's of metal hydride heat management system (MHHC + MHHP) are close to 40% for both heating and cooling outputs. Moreover, the tri-generation leads to an improvement of 36% in round-trip energy efficiency as compared to that of a stand-alone R-SOFC. (C) 2018 Hydrogen Energy Publications LLC. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000447479100012
ER

PT J
AU Saini, A
   Prakash, R
   Kellenberger, JD
AF Saini, Arun
   Prakash, Ram
   Kellenberger, Joseph D.
TI Assessment of operational availability for the PIP-II Superconducting
   Radio Frequency linear accelerator facility
DE SRF accelerator facility; Operational availability; Down-time
AB Operational availability is a critical performance measure for an accelerator facility in modern time. A high availability enables the facility to serve a wide range of users simultaneously. Consequently, besides pure accelerator physics considerations, newly proposed accelerator facilities account for the availability and reliability aspects in the design phases. It allows incorporation of appropriate mitigation strategies for the most vulnerable systems in the machine and therefore, minimizes unscheduled interruptions during the operation. This paper lays out a methodology for the availability assessment of the complete particle accelerator facility and presents an initial assessment of the availability of the newly proposed Proton Improvement Plan-II (PIP-II) accelerator facility at Fermilab. The paper describes a comprehensive reliability model of the PIP-II facility that comprises not only 800 MeV linear accelerator (linac) system but also essential utility systems in the form of cryogenic, water, power and air systems. The paper details estimations of the availability of the PIP-II facility for two operational modes i.e. the nominal operational mode featuring 800 MeV beam and critical operational mode involving operation with the lowest objective beam energy of 600 MeV.
UT WOS:000604693800017
ER

PT J
AU Sowa, PM
   Fooken, J
   McGowan, K
   Birch, S
AF Sowa, P. Marcin
   Fooken, Jonas
   McGowan, Kelly
   Birch, Stephen
TI Disposable and reusable instruments in dental health practice: A
   comparison of cost factors in a public provider organization in
   Queensland, Australia
DE cost; economic evaluation; environmental impact; reprocessing; reusable
   instruments; single-use devices; waste
ID LIFE-CYCLE ASSESSMENT; WASTE; SUSTAINABILITY; INFECTIONS
AB Objectives Choosing between reusable instruments (RIs) and disposable instruments (DIs) for dental care provision requires a careful consideration of costs and their contributing factors, alongside other choice criteria. This study aimed to assess the current use of instruments in the West Moreton Oral Health Service (WMOHS) in Queensland, Australia, with a broader goal of informing future practice in this and comparable organizations. Methods A cost model was developed reflecting costs arising from procurement, reprocessing and disposal, depending on the RI and DI composition of instrumentation. The current practice in WMOHS was compared to modular (RI-only and DI-only) strategies by considering four standard instrument sets (examination, simple extraction, surgical extraction, restoration) and the annual use of instruments in the organization at large. The use of resources (water, electricity) and emissions (waste) were quantified for each strategy. The robustness of findings was explored across a range of scenarios that involved varying instrument prices, lifespans, factors impacting on the cost of reprocessing (labour, water, energy), the cost of waste disposal and couriering. Results At the organization level, the current mix of instruments (A$1.28 m per year) was 4% more costly than the lower cost, RI-only alternative (A$1.23 m). However, with lower DI prices or higher labour costs current practice would become the lowest cost option. Results for specific instrument sets varied by service type. DI-only offered the lowest cost option for oral examinations (A$6.29), and the current practice of mixed instrumentation for simple extractions (A$16.56). RI-only sets were less costly in more resource intensive procedures such as surgical extractions (A$40.19) and restorations (A$43.83). In terms of environmental impacts, the use of instruments based on current practice required 37% of water and energy use of an RI-only alternative and generated 36% waste of the DI-only alternative. Conclusions Reusable instruments are generally less costly than DIs, but for specific instrument sets the outcome depends on the type of procedure. In some circumstances, mixed instrumentation can provide the lowest cost alternative. While the WMOHS instrument mix used in current practice does not minimize cost for the provider, it may be justified in light of operational risks, logistics and uncertainty regarding cost factors.
UT WOS:000806099100001
ER

PT C
AU Karni, Y
   Klumel, G
   Levy, M
   Berk, Y
   Openhaim, Y
   Gridish, Y
   Elgali, A
   Avisar, M
   Blonder, M
   Sagy, H
   Gertsenshtein, A
AF Karni, Yoram
   Klumel, Genady
   Levy, Moshe
   Berk, Yuri
   Openhaim, Yaki
   Gridish, Yaakov
   Elgali, Asher
   Avisar, Meir
   Blonder, Moshe
   Sagy, Hila
   Gertsenshtein, Alex
BE Zediker, MS
TI Active cooling solutions for high power laser diodes stacks - art. no.
   687604
DE diode laser; repetitive cw operation; qcw operation; laser diode
   reliability High power diode laser; microchannel cooling
AB High power water cooled diode lasers find increasing demand in biomedical, cosmetic and industrial applications, where very high brightness and power are required. The high brightness is achieved either by increasing the power of each bar or by reducing the emitting area of the stacks. Two new products will be presented: Horizontal CW stacks with output power as high as 1kW using 80 W bars with emitting area width as low as 50 mu m; Vertical QCW stacks with output power as high as 1.2kW using 120 W bars. Heat removal from high power laser stacks often requires microchannel coolers operated with finely filtered deionized (DI) water. However, for certain industrial applications the reliability of this cooling method is widely considered insufficient due to leakage failures caused the highly corrosive DI water.
   Two solutions to the above problem will be discussed. A microchannel cooler-based package, which vastly reduces the corrosion problem, and a novel high-power laser diode stack that completely eliminates it. The latter solution is especially effective for pulsed applications in high duty cycle range.
UT WOS:000255550300004
ER

PT J
AU Uche, J
   Martíinez-Gracia, A
   Zabalza, I
   Usón, S
AF Uche, Javier
   Martinez-Gracia, Amaya
   Zabalza, Ignacio
   Uson, Sergio
TI Renewable Energy Source (RES)-Based Polygeneration Systems for
   Multi-Family Houses
DE multi-family houses; PVT panels; RES-based polygeneration
ID DYNAMIC SIMULATION; DESALINATION; WATER; HEAT; REFRIGERATION;
   OPTIMIZATION; BUILDINGS; ISLAND; CYCLE; POWER
AB This research work synthetizes the energy, economic, and environmental aspects of a novel configurational analysis of four polygeneration schemes designed to fulfill the demands of a multi-family building that includes 12 dwellings. The design aims to meet the requirements (water, electricity, heat and cold air) from Renewable Energy Sources (RESs), in particular by selecting photovoltaic and photovoltaic-thermal panels, thermoelectric generators, and biomass as auxiliaries. Electricity is available from the grid, and no electrical storage is planned. Water and cooling may be produced by alternative technologies that configure the polygeneration alternatives. The case study is in Valencia, a coastal Mediterranean city in Spain. The Design Builder Clima estimated demand calculations, and the system performance was modeled in TRNSYS. Desalination was linked by using EES models. Results show that the suggested schemes offer substantial energy and CO2 savings. The innovative life-cycle analysis applied further enhances the cumulative CO2 savings across the four configurations if the impact of the installations is compared with the conventional external supply. The electric option (combining heat pump and reverse osmosis for cooling and desalination) emerged as the most appealing solution due to its reliability, lower investment cost, and environmental impact.
UT WOS:001159929300001
ER

PT C
AU Pala, O
   Wilson, D
   Bent, R
   Linger, S
   Arnold, J
AF Pala, Okan
   Wilson, David
   Bent, Russell
   Linger, Steve
   Arnold, James
BE Butts, J
   Shenoi, S
TI ACCURACY OF SERVICE AREA ESTIMATION METHODS USED FOR CRITICAL
   INFRASTRUCTURE RECOVERY
DE Service area estimates; recovery; Thiessen polygons; cellular automata
ID VORONOI DIAGRAMS; SIMULATION; AUTOMATA
AB Electric power, water, natural gas and other utilities are served to consumers via functional sources such as electric power substations, pumps and pipes. Understanding the impact of service outages is vital to decision making in response and recovery efforts. Often, data pertaining to the source-sink relationships between service points and consumers is sensitive or proprietary, and is, therefore, unavailable to external entities. As a result, during emergencies, decision makers often rely on estimates of service areas produced by various methods. This paper, which focuses on electric power, assesses the accuracy of four methods for estimating power substation service areas, namely the standard and weighted versions of Thiessen polygon and cellular automata approaches. Substation locations and their power outputs are used as inputs to the service area calculation methods. Reference data is used to evaluate the accuracy in approximating a power distribution network in a mid-sized U.S. city. Service area estimation methods are surveyed and their performance is evaluated empirically. The results indicate that the performance of the approaches depends on the type of analysis employed. When the desired analysis includes aggregate economic or population predictions, the weighted version of the cellular automata approach has the best performance. However, when the desired analysis involves facility-specific predictions, the weighted Thiessen polygon approach tends to perform the best.
UT WOS:000348502100012
ER

PT J
AU Liu, ML
   Chen, HX
   Zhou, ZY
   Du, XD
   Zhao, YX
   Ji, HY
   Teng, GH
AF Liu, Mulin
   Chen, Hongxi
   Zhou, Zhenyu
   Du, Xiaodong
   Zhao, Yuxiao
   Ji, Hengyi
   Teng, Guanghui
TI Development of an Intelligent Service Platform for a Poultry House
   Facility Environment Based on the Internet of Things
DE livestock breeding; Internet of Things; real-time monitoring
ID SYSTEM
AB In recent years, the poultry breeding industry has been converted into a large-scale, intensive, and intelligent production mode. The Internet of Things (IoT) is under rapid development, which promotes the development of precision livestock farming. In this study, we developed an intelligent service platform for a facility environment based on the IoT structure, utilizing the capabilities of Platform as a Service (PaaS). The platform consists of four layers, including an information perception layer, network layer, management service layer, and application layer. By using the cloud service model with a distributed network architecture, asynchronous data transmission, and a distributed file system, the platform can centrally manage multiple farm's data. The intelligent service platform includes the following functions: displaying environmental data, water and electricity consumption, data analysis, and managing production data. Over a 500-day trial period in a live poultry house, the platform demonstrated high data integrity (>87%) and resilience against network disruptions and power outages. The data validity of each environmental element exceeded 94%, among which the validity of the temperature, humidity, and carbon dioxide concentration exceeded 99%. The overall accuracy of the dataset remained relatively high, providing a robust data foundation for further research. Key features included audio analysis, environmental monitoring, and production data management. The platform's operational status was efficiently communicated via data statistics and email alerts, facilitating timely system recovery. The demonstrated modules included sound recognition, psychrometric charts for visual alerts, and financial analysis tools, offering versatile solutions for integrating PLF models and advanced analytics.
UT WOS:001307205300001
ER

PT J
AU Araghi, AH
   Khiadani, M
   Hooman, K
   Lucas, G
AF Araghi, Alireza Hosseini
   Khiadani, Mehdi
   Hooman, Kamel
   Lucas, Gordon
TI Efficiency of a Combined Desalination and Power System Utilizing a
   Two-Phase Flow Multistream Heat Exchanger
ID THERMAL DESIGN; PRESSURE-DROP; PLATE; PERFORMANCE; EVAPORATION;
   NETWORKS; AMMONIA
AB The aim of this study is to simplify the process of discharge thermal energy combined desalination with power system by integrating the two existing heat exchangers (condensers) into a new multistream one. This system is a heat recovery unit, which is used to cogenerate water and power. Two shell-and-tube condensers operate in a closed power cycle and a desalination system for cooling an ammonia mixture as a working fluid and condensing a pure vapor, respectively. Here, a two-phase flow multistream condenser is utilized instead of the two low-exergy-efficiency shell-and-tube condensers. The results proved that the proposed technique leads to improving its exergy efficiency by 15%. The performance of the proposed condenser was analyzed by applying parametric optimization.
UT WOS:000395712200003
ER

PT J
AU Giwa, A
   Fath, H
   Hasan, SW
AF Giwa, Adewale
   Fath, Hassan
   Hasan, Shadi W.
TI Humidification-dehumidification desalination process driven by
   photovoltaic thermal energy recovery (PV-HDH) for small-scale
   sustainable water and power production
DE Photovoltaic; Humidification; Dehumidification; Desalination;
   Environmental assessment
ID SOLAR DESALINATION; PERFORMANCE EVALUATION; DESIGN; STILL; PARAMETERS
AB Humidification-dehumidification (HDH) desalination technology with the use of recovered photovoltaic (PV) thermal energy could be viable for the production of small-capacity sustainable water and improvement of PV electric power generation efficiency. This paper investigates the technical feasibility and environmental friendliness of an air-cooled PV system integrated with ambient seawater inflow into a HDH desalination system. The technical analysis of the PV-HDH desalination process was carried out through the modeling of the physical and thermodynamic properties involved in the recovery of PV thermal energy and determination of the effect of this recovery on water produced under the environmental conditions of Abu Dhabi, UAE. The results showed that the heat recovered from the PV resulted in the production of a daily average of 2.28 L of fresh water per m(2) of PV. On the other hand, the environmental impact assessment of this PV-HDH power and desalination technology was also carried out for the first time in order to determine its viability for small-scale sustainable water and energy production. The PV-HDH system resulted in 83.6% decrease in environmental impacts when compared with PV-Reverse Osmosis (PV-RO) system. In conclusion, the integrated PV-HDH desalination technology is promising and expected to play a key role in the field of water desalination. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000363817400017
ER

PT J
AU El-Afifi, MI
   Saadawi, MM
   Eladl, AA
AF El-Afifi, Magda, I
   Saadawi, Magdi M.
   Eladl, Abdelfattah A.
TI Cogeneration Systems Performance Analysis as a Sustainable Clean Energy
   and Water Source Based on Energy Hubs Using the Archimedes Optimization
   Algorithm
DE energy hub; cogeneration systems; Archimedes optimization algorithm;
   sustainable; emissions; water management
ID ECONOMIC-DISPATCH; HEAT; RELIABILITY; MANAGEMENT; STRATEGY; STORAGE;
   MODEL
AB Different energy requirements of the residential sector are varied, such as electricity, heating, cooling, water, etc., and these necessities are met by multi-energy systems using various energy sources and converters. In this paper, an optimal day-ahead operation of a large residential demand sector is presented based on the energy hub (EH) model with combined heat and power (CHP) as a cogeneration system. The purpose of the optimization is to maximize social welfare (SW) and minimize environmental emissions subjected to numerous technical constraints. To explore the effectiveness of the proposed model, real cases were studied and results were analyzed. Moreover, to evaluate the efficiency of the proposed methodology, the Archimedes optimization algorithm (AOA) is implemented for optimizing the EH system. The performance of the AOA is compared with the genetic algorithm, and the results depict that the AOA is better in terms of convergence speed and global search ability. Implementation of the proposed framework shows that the total SW is increased by 27.44% and environmental emissions are reduced by 18.36% compared to the base case without the EH. Additionally, there is 512.26 MWh and 149.4 m(3) as a surplus in the electricity and water that are sold to every network, respectively.
UT WOS:000887644100001
ER

PT J
AU Mamedes, I
   Guerra, A
   Rodrigues, DBB
   Garcia, LC
   Godoi, RD
   Oliveira, PTS
AF Mamedes, Ingrid
   Guerra, Angelica
   Rodrigues, Dulce B. B.
   Garcia, Leticia Couto
   Godoi, Raquel de Faria
   Oliveira, Paulo Tarso S.
TI Brazilian payment for environmental services programs emphasize
   water-related services
DE Conservation funding; Ecological restoration; Environmental compliance;
   Public policy; Soil and water conservation
ID ECOSYSTEM SERVICES; VEGETATION RESTORATION; LAND; FOREST; MANAGEMENT;
   SOIL; CONSERVATION; PES; PARTICIPATION; OPPORTUNITY
AB Based on "user pays" and "provider gets" principles, the Payment for Environmental Services (PES) consists of providing economic incentives or compensation for land users who adopt activities that promote ecosystem services. These PES initiatives have grown rapidly in Brazil over the last few decades, however, studies that address the panorama of these programs in the country are still scarce, regional, or outdated. Here, we investigate the PES overview in Brazil through interviews and an extensive literature review. We found in total 80 PES programs implemented in Brazil, of which 14 were closed. The pro-grams are poorly distributed across the country, mostly concentrated in the Atlantic Forest (56.25%) and Savanna (36.25%) biomes, in Southeastern Brazil. The majority of programs primarily prioritize improving water quality and quantity. Therefore, reforestation, protection of native vegetation, and soil and water conservation are their main proposed practices. The positive impacts of Brazil's PES experi-ences are evident; while the lack of transparency and monitoring, and poor spatial and financial dis-tribution are still major limitations. We conclude that if correctly implemented, PES schemes offer a path to reconcile environmental conservation with agricultural production in Brazil.(c) 2023 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY -NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
UT WOS:000959325100001
ER

PT J
AU Odeh, S
   Aden, I
AF Odeh, Saad
   Aden, Ilyas
TI Modeling of a Photovoltaic/Thermal Hybrid Panel for Residential Hot
   Water System
DE energy efficiency; solar hot water; photovoltaic/thermal; modeling;
   testing
ID PERFORMANCE
AB Despite the extensive body of research on photovoltaic (PV)/thermal systems, a gap remains in evaluating their performance in residential settings. This study aims to bridge this gap by focusing on the energy modeling of a PV/Thermal (PVT) hybrid panel that incorporates heat pipe technology. The evaluation is conducted through MATLAB code to assess the system's capability to fulfill the electricity and heating demands of residential buildings. The model's reliability is affirmed by comparing it with experimental data from a PVT panel tested in Sydney, exploring the transient variations in both water heat gain rates and power generation. The model's precision is evident from the percentage of error in the estimated temperatures of the PV panel based on the test results under various weather conditions, which ranged from -8% to 6%. This method was also utilized to determine the overall energy efficiency of the PVT panel under different climatic conditions. The results reveal that the overall energy efficiency of the proposed PVT panel, on a typical day, is approximately 45%, significantly outperforming traditional PV panels by more than double. Furthermore, the payback period for a typical residential PVT system, providing both hot water and electricity, is found substantially shorter than that of installing separate PV and solar hot water systems, highlighting the economic and environmental benefits of the proposed hybrid system.
UT WOS:001380592500012
ER

PT J
AU McHenry, MP
AF McHenry, Mark P.
TI Why are remote Western Australians installing renewable energy
   technologies in stand-alone power supply systems?
DE RAPS; SPS; Renewable; Pastoral; Western Australia
AB As people living in remote areas rely on SPS systems for their electricity and water needs, they hold a practical and non-idealistic perspective towards using renewable energy technologies. This research explores pastoral owner-operators' personal experience and opinion of stand-alone power supply (SPS) systems over 30 years in remote pastoral regions Western Australia (WA). This research was undertaken qualitatively in terms of the experience of remote Australians of energy service delivery and SPS system performance to obtain personal opinions of remote pastoral people who rely on SPS systems to provide basic needs. This research concluded that the impressive growth in total renewable energy capacity in remote off-grid SPS systems in WA is primarily due to subsidies that aim to fuel-switch to renewable energy sources. Despite this, other major reasons for the increases in renewable energy capacity are escalating conventional fuel costs, difficulties in attracting qualified service contractors, increasing desire for quiet, 24-h energy services, and a range of unique situations. Despite the increased use of renewable energy technologies, this research reinforced previous research conclusions that consistently found both the conventional and renewable energy service sector wanting in remote areas. Three areas needing attention to sustain the growth in renewable capacity are: technical SPS system integration, service infrastructure, and technical reliability. (C) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000263608500009
ER

PT C
AU Gokul, V
   Tadepalli, S
AF Gokul, V.
   Tadepalli, Sitaram
GP IEEE
TI Implementation of Smart Infrastructure and Non-Invasive Wearable for
   Real Time Tracking and Early Identification of Diseases in Cattle
   Farming using IoT
DE IoT; wearable; nodes; early detection; location; abnormalities;
   emergency; calving time; smart lighting; smart ventilation; smart
   watering; smoke; cloud; visualization; storage; analytics
AB The major objective of this system is to make infrastructure of cattle farming smarter and to implement a non-invasive wearable to track physiological and biological activities of cattle using Internet of Things alias IoT. Each cattle is tagged with a wearable device. The wearable device and sink node is designed based on architecture of device to cloud. The wearable device is for early detection of illness, abnormalities detection, emergency handling, location tracking, calving time intimation and determine disease before visual signs. The sink node is responsible for smart lighting, smart ventilation, smart watering and smoke detection along with sprinkler actuation to make infrastructure smarter and safer. All sensor readings will be forwarded to thingspeak cloud to enable remote access. Through thingspeak cloud real time health characteristics of individual cattle, smoke level in farm, daily water and electricity usage will be displayed in line graph. All data along with time and date can be extracted as an excel sheet for further analysis. As a result overall cattle health and milk production will be improved by reducing cattle health inspection costs ensuring small size, low cost, high consistency and reliability.
UT WOS:000427222200088
ER

PT C
AU Bhusal, JK
AF Bhusal, Jagat K.
BE Zhaoyin, W
   Lee, JHW
   Jizhang, G
   Shuyou, C
TI Climate Change Consideration in Hydropower Development in Nepal
   Himalayan Region
DE Climate Change; Climate dynamics; River flows; Water power;
   Hydroelectric
ID NORTH-ATLANTIC OSCILLATION; GREENHOUSE-GAS EMISSIONS; TRENDS;
   VULNERABILITY; TEMPERATURES; VICINITY; IMPACTS; PERIOD
AB The effects of Climate change on precipitation pattern and hydrological regime are the most critical to hydropower generation. The trends on changes, though not exactly quantified, are visualized to be heterogeneous over different ecological zones of Nepal. Certain areas especially higher Himalayas of Nepal are becoming increasingly susceptible to hydrological transformations caused by climate change. Changing pattern of temperature is more visible and clear than precipitation. Changes in evaporation rates, annual river discharge, seasonal and temporal offsets of hydrological patterns, extreme precipitation events, and increased glacial melt are the most pertinent climate change effect that has impacted hydroelectric generation. Erosion and transport pattern of sediment is directly influenced by the pattern of changes in precipitation and runoff. Warming affected glaciers not only to contribute more water but also to the development of GLOF hazards. Rivers from Himalaya enriched by snow and glaciers melt. Kosi River of Nepal Himalaya gets about 8.46 % of the annual flow from snow and glacier melt with a maximum monthly contribution of 22.52 % in May and a minimum monthly contribution of 1.86% in January in (WWF 2009). Another assessment made in upper Kaligandaki indicated that the snow melt contribution could reach up to 40 %. The worst scenarios as per the present projection are that future flow characteristics of snow fed rivers could appear to be like that of present pattern of non-snow fed rivers (Bhusal J K & Chapagain P, 2011). The methodology of the study was based on research output made available as published literatures, various scientific studies' results and information from multiple sources that are focused on climate change vulnerability to water resources, especial focus on hydropower, are synthesized and integrated.
UT WOS:000343761500035
ER

PT C
AU Balzannikov, MI
   Mikhasek, AA
AF Balzannikov, Mikhail I.
   Mikhasek, Andrey A.
BE Nikolic, RR
   Marschalko, M
   Drusa, M
TI The Use of Modified Composite Materials in Building Hydraulic
   Engineering Structures
DE hydraulic engineering structures; building materials; composite
   materials; investigation of properties
AB The article describes hydraulic engineering structures which are built in low-head water power hydro systems and which can also be used to stabilize river bank slopes. The paper gives information on the condition of riverbanks in Samara region and underlines the necessity to increase the amount of works on bank-stabilization. The paper stresses the importance of decreasing the expenses on building bank-stabilizing hydraulic engineering structures without any loss in their reliability and safety. Authors propose to build such structures using composite materials and their modifications and take geosynthetics, polymer-impregnated concrete and waste-/by-products as their constituents. The research also describes how the properties of composite materials change when they are modified for building hydraulic engineering structures. (C) 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
UT WOS:000396731100032
ER

PT J
AU Chen, Y
   Ye, CW
   He, JJ
   Qu, LT
   Tang, SC
AF Chen, Yu
   Ye, Chengwei
   He, Jiajun
   Qu, Liangti
   Tang, Shaochun
TI Ion-engine hydrogel based solar desalination for water-electricity
   cogeneration with milliampere level current
ID CARBON
AB Seawater evaporation-induced electricity generation (SEG) holds potential in alleviating global energy and freshwater demands. However, conventional SEGs suffer from non-selective ion transport in seawater, leading to severe Debye screening effect and low output current (<10 mu A). To overcome this bottleneck, we develop an ion-engine hydrogel based solar-powered SEG (SSEG), achieving milliampere level peak current of 1.2 mA from seawater due to molecular-level ion control, surpassing previously reported SEGs by 1 to 2 orders of magnitude. Molecular dynamics simulations and Hittorf's method confirm that the hydrogel dramatically enhances anion transference number (similar to 0.83) while suppresses cation-induced Debye screening via chemical gating, which is attributed to synergistic effect of metal-polymer coordination and ion-preferential association. The integrated SSEG system operating outdoors can generate power up to 24 mW, sufficient to charge small electronics, while producing freshwater at a high-yield over 2.0 kg m(-2) h(-1). Additionally, the ion modulation mechanism boosts the regeneration potential of waste concentrated by-products in SSEG systems, enabling the recovery of up to 16.7 W m(-2) of blue energy through reverse electrodialysis, improving sustainability and economic value. This work demonstrates an approach for developing off-grid integrated water-energy cogeneration systems.
UT WOS:001624438000039
ER

PT J
AU Qin, CL
   Ren, TT
   Huang, L
   Zhang, XT
   Gong, YH
   Wang, GQ
   Liu, P
AF Qin, Chenglong
   Ren, Tingting
   Huang, Lu
   Zhang, Xiantao
   Gong, Yihan
   Wang, Gongqing
   Liu, Peng
TI Photocatalytic hydrogen production by splitting atmospheric water for
   simultaneous water harvesting and power generation
DE Photocatalytic hydrogen production; Atmospheric water harvesting;
   Thermoelectric generation; Hybrid system; Residual heat recovery;
   Photocatalytic hydrogen production; Atmospheric water harvesting;
   Thermoelectric generation; Hybrid system; Residual heat recovery
AB The photocatalytic hydrogen production technology that uses atmospheric water harvesting offers an environmentally friendly hydrogen solution for areas with scarce natural water resources. However, significant amounts of unused waste heat are generated during this process, reducing the general effectiveness of solar energy utilization. Here, a solar-driven hydrogen-water-electricity (SHWE) multi-generation hybrid system is designed to recover waste heat from the photocatalytic hydrogen production process, with the aim of improving solar energy efficiency and enabling the simultaneous production of freshwater and electricity. Under one solar intensity, the system produces 28.24 mmol m- 2 h- 1 of hydrogen, collects 37.04 g m- 2 h- 1 of freshwater, generates an output voltage of 65 mV, and delivers 69.04 mW m- 2 of output power. In real outdoor environments, the system generates 146.16 mmol m- 2 center dot day- 1 of hydrogen, and 43.87 g m- 2 center dot day- 1 of freshwater, with an average output voltage of 53 mV. Furthermore, the system can regenerate during the night by absorbing atmospheric moisture. This research provides a promising solution for the further development and optimization of integrated systems for sustainable energy and resource generation.
UT WOS:001565784400006
ER

PT J
AU Yoon, H
   Sauri, D
   Domene, E
AF Yoon, Hyerim
   Sauri, David
   Domene, Elena
TI The water-energy vulnerability in the Barcelona metropolitan area
DE Water-energy nexus; Water poverty; Energy poverty; Domestic hot water;
   Expenditure based analysis
ID CLIMATE-CHANGE; DEMAND MANAGEMENT; FUEL POVERTY; URBAN WATER; HOT-WATER;
   CONSUMPTION; INCOME; EFFICIENCY; STRATEGIES; SCARCITY
AB This paper focuses on the water-energy nexus in low income households. Water, electricity and gas constitute fundamental resources for households that interplay throughout many daily activities. However, in studies on household poverty, there is a tendency to treat water and energy separately. In this contribution, we argue for the joint consideration of both forms of deprivation and present empirical evidence for the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona (AMB). In Barcelona, the dynamics between water and energy poverty in households widened the scope of institutional measures on energy poverty by incorporating water poverty as part of guaranteeing the 'right to basic utilities'. We document the interactions between the two resources through the water-energy nexus approach by combining quantitative and qualitative methodologies. Apart from presenting the expenditure-based analysis of the Spanish Survey of Income and Living Conditions, which reveals that a significant part of the population is both water and energy poor, with the results from our semi-structured interviews, we are able to demonstrate how much importance and value the affected households give to their thermal and hydric (dis)comfort, which in turn, exerts a direct impact on their daily hygiene and health. The paper also highlights institutional and socio-technical perspective as the differences in ownership and regulatory status of both resources cause discordances in public efforts to alleviate the status of the water and energy poor. (C) 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000482245700015
ER

PT J
AU Tarolli, P
   Liu, GB
   Castelli, G
   Bresci, E
   Bailly, JS
   Rizzo, D
   Loc, HH
   Sidle, RC
   Bogaard, T
AF Tarolli, Paolo
   Liu, Guobin
   Castelli, Giulio
   Bresci, Elena
   Bailly, Jean-Stephane
   Rizzo, Davide
   Loc, Ho Huu
   Sidle, Roy C.
   Bogaard, Thom
TI Nature-based solutions for soil and water conservation in an era of
   climate extremes: Limitations and future scenarios
ID BIODIVERSITY; RESTORATION; CHALLENGES; MITIGATION; MANAGEMENT;
   VEGETATION; COMMUNITY; WETLANDS
AB Nature-based Solutions (NbS) have emerged as an effective approach to address environmental challenges while promoting sustainable development. If properly designed, they foster resilient ecosystems capable of adapting to and mitigating threats, such as soil degradation, water scarcity, natural hazards, and climate change. In soil and water conservation, NbS offer adaptive strategies that integrate ecological, social, and economic benefits. However, the unprecedented climate extremes (e.g. heatwaves, prolonged drought, drought-flood coexistence, and extreme rainfall causing destructive flash floods) threaten their functionality. If one solution is effective in the present climate regimes, it is not guaranteed that the same effectiveness will be maintained in future climates (e.g. climate zone shift from temperate to arid with record heatwaves during summer). This challenge is exacerbated when the changes in climate extremes coincide with unexpected shifts in anthropogenic activities. This perspective explores these challenges and proposes some approaches for implementing NbS in soil and water conservation, considering future climate change scenarios. (c) 2025 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation and China Water and Power Press. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
UT WOS:001755745100001
ER

PT J
AU Ghimire, A
   Neupane, MS
AF Ghimire, Animesh
   Neupane, Mamata Sharma
TI Training under planetary risk: planetary health ethics in clinical
   education and governance
DE Planetary health ethics; Medical education; Nursing education; Nepal;
   Climate change; Disaster preparedness; Health systems
ID CARE; BIOETHICS; FOOTPRINT; FUTURE
AB Background Health-professional training in many low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) unfolds amid long-standing yet intensifying environmental, infrastructural, and health-system stressors, including extreme heat, unreliable power and water supplies, seasonal surges in vector-borne disease, and seismic risk. Yet undergraduate ethics teaching often remains encounter-centred, offering limited preparation for safe, fair, and role-bounded action when clinical systems are strained. This study examined how final-year medical and nursing students in Nepal understand these conditions and what they identify as practical entry points for planetary health ethics education.Methods We conducted a qualitative descriptive study at a tertiary public institution in Madhesh Province, Nepal. Twenty-one final-year students participated in semi-structured interviews: 10 Bachelor of Science in Nursing students and 11 Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery students. Data were analysed using the Framework Method, combining inductive coding with sensitising concepts from planetary health ethics.Results Three practice-proximal themes were identified. First, students described planetary disruptions as the "new clinical context": clinical learning occurred amid overlapping pressures, including climate-exacerbated heat, dengue-season surges, intermittent power and water supply, cold-chain and equipment vulnerability, and earthquake-readiness routines. Their accounts emphasised supervised safety work: noticing risks early, adjusting tasks within scope, documenting clearly, and escalating through established channels. Second, professional futures were shaped by safety, reciprocity, and conditional return. Speciality and migration narratives were grounded less in abstract planetary ethics than in occupational safety, remuneration, family responsibility, reliable training, usable expertise, functioning equipment, and institutional readiness. Third, students identified a curricular gap and proposed concrete solutions, including locally grounded cases, hazard thresholds, escalation routes, Objective Structured Clinical Examination (OSCE) stations that simulate system failures, interprofessional drills, and the inclusion of situated expertise from staff who manage the material conditions of care.Conclusions Planetary health ethics becomes educationally meaningful when translated into teachable and assessable routines for clinical practice under constraint. Programmes should prepare students to recognise hazard thresholds, communicate transparently, document constrained decisions, escalate appropriately, and learn from the infrastructures and personnel that make safe care possible. High-hazard LMIC settings are not peripheral to planetary health ethics; they offer vital insight into educating health professionals for just, resilient, and context-responsive care.
UT WOS:001849385400002
ER

PT J
AU Chen, L
   Zheng, Y
   Su, BD
   Li, MS
   Li, YF
   Chen, HK
AF Chen, Lei
   Zheng, Yi
   Su, Bude
   Li, Musi
   Li, Yifei
   Chen, Hongkun
TI Optimal configuration of battery energy storage for resilience
   enhancement in multi-energy-coupled active distribution networks against
   typhoon events
DE Multi-energy coupled active distribution networks; Resilience
   enhancement; Optimal configuration; Battery energy storage devices;
   Fault recovery
ID HARMONY SEARCH ALGORITHM; HEAT; SYSTEM
AB With the growing integration of various energy systems, multi-energy coupled active distribution networks (MECADNs) that combine electricity, water, gas, and heat have become essential infrastructure for ensuring a reliable energy supply. Enhancing the resilience of MECADNs against typhoon disasters is therefore of great significance. This paper proposes an optimal configuration method for battery energy storage devices (BESDs) to enhance the resilience of MECADNs. Based on a dynamic model of multi-energy coupled networks, a two-layer optimization model is developed. The inner-layer focuses on the operational optimization of active distribution networks (ADNs), considering multi-energy effects, while the outer-layer targets the optimal configuration of BESDs. Additionally, a hybrid intelligent algorithm combining particle swarm optimization (PSO) and snow ablation optimizer (SAO) is designed to improve solution efficiency and accuracy. The proposed method is validated through cross-verification in small- and large-scale MECADNs based on modified IEEE 33-node and 118-node systems, integrating theoretical analysis, numerical simulation, and resilience index quantification. The main conclusions are as follows: (1) The two-layer optimization model exhibits excellent scalability across system scales, and the SAO-PSO hybrid algorithm outperforms standalone PSO/SAO in both speed and accuracy, economically reducing BESDs configuration cost in the 33-node and 118-node systems. (2) Under multi-stage typhoon fault scenarios, the method realizes simultaneous optimization of BESDs configuration and MECADNs operation, coordinating electricity-gas-water-heat subsystems to smooth load fluctuations and stabilize state parameters. (3) It significantly enhances system resilience: the average load recovery rate reaches 99.3 % in the 33-node system and rises from 78.3 % to 97.8 % in the 118-node system; resilience scores increase from 42.00 to 43.42 for small-scale MECADNs and 58.52 to 60.51 for large-scale MECADNs, with the large-scale networks showing a 40.1 % higher gain in score increment.
UT WOS:001665895500001
ER

PT J
AU Meratizaman, M
   Monadizadeh, S
   Amidpour, M
AF Meratizaman, Mousa
   Monadizadeh, Sina
   Amidpour, Majid
TI Simulation and economic evaluation of small-scale SOFC-GT-MED
DE Solid oxide fuel cell; gas turbine power cycle; Multiple effect
   distillation; Small-scale power-water unit; Annualized cost of system
ID OXIDE FUEL-CELL; PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS; DESALINATION; TURBINE;
   OPTIMIZATION; SYSTEM; HEAT; DESIGN; PLANT
AB Thermal nature of multiple effect distillation (MED) process causes the integration of a desalination unit with a high-temperature power cycle like gas turbine in combination with the solid oxide fuel cell. The improvement in energy efficiency is achieved as a result of this combination. This configuration can be introduced as an effective system for the electrical energy-freshwater production. The electrical efficiency of solid oxide fuel cell-gas turbine (SOFC-GT) is reported about 60%. Small-scale MED unit is presented as a solution for heat recovery in the 300-1,000kW range of (size of SOFC) SOFC-GT power cycle. The exhausted heat of SOFC-GT power cycle is used in heat recovery steam generator to produce a required motive steam for the desalination unit. Simulation, parametric studies, and economic analysis of proposed system are carried out to investigate the system performance. Economic analyses are applied based on the annualized cost of system method. Results show that the combination of MED with SOFC-GT power cycle makes the system more economic.
UT WOS:000368037100007
ER

PT J
AU Bu, XB
   Huang, SH
   Liu, S
   Yang, Y
   Shu, J
   Wang, GL
AF Bu, Xianbiao
   Huang, Sihao
   Liu, Shi
   Yang, Yi
   Shu, Jie
   Wang, Guiling
TI A novel offshore energy station with poly-generation of power, fresh
   water, heat, cold and ice
DE Underwater compressed air energy storage; Offshore energy station;
   Offshore wind power; Underwater pipeline pressure loss; Combined
   production of power-water-heat; cold
ID STORAGE SYSTEM; WIND; DESIGN; OPTIMIZATION
AB Energy storage system with large capacity, high efficiency, low cost and long time is major bottleneck, limiting the large-scale deployments of offshore wind power. To improve energy recovery efficiency and energy storage density, here underwater compressed air energy storage (CAES) with isobaric operation is proposed. At about 5 MPa storage pressure, energy recovery efficiency and energy storage density for traditional CAES are respectively 59.45 % and 2.94 kWh/m3, while they increase to 70.35 % and 6.59 kWh/m3 respectively for underwater CAES. The frictional pressure loss of underwater pipeline for air delivery has a remarkable effect on the performance of underwater CAES, and energy recovery efficiency and energy storage density increase from 51.92 % to 67.97 % and from 4.85 kWh/m3 to 6.28 kWh/m3 respectively when the pipeline diameter increases from 0.35 m to 0.45 m. To improve economic profit and utilize interstage compression heat and high frequency electrical energy more efficiently, an offshore energy station with poly-generation is proposed, which has the energy recovery efficiency of 58.26 % and energy storage density of 7.16 kWh/m3, and generates 358.22 MWh of electrical energy, 252.75 GJ of thermal energy, 66.10 GJ of cold energy, 123.23 tons of ice and 257.25 tons of fresh water each day, opening new ways of deploying offshore wind power and offshore energy storage and also providing strong support for developing and utilizing sea resources and conquering the oceans.
UT WOS:001301435400001
ER

PT J
AU Chu, PL
   Vanderghem, C
   MacLean, HL
   Saville, BA
AF Chu, Pei Lin
   Vanderghem, Caroline
   MacLean, Heather L.
   Saville, Bradley A.
TI Financial analysis and risk assessment of hydroprocessed renewable jet
   fuel production from camelina, carinata and used cooking oil
DE Hydroprocessed renewable jet; Financial analysis; Monte Carlo analysis;
   Camelina; Carinata; Used cooking oil
ID BIOMASS SYNGAS; CONVERSION; FERMENTATION; BIOFUELS; ROUTES; DIESEL;
   OPPORTUNITIES; TECHNOLOGIES; CHALLENGES
AB This paper evaluates the financial viability of renewable jet fuel production, from two oilseed crops Camelina sativa (camelina) and Brassica carinata (carinata) and used cooking oil (UCO), by the hydrodeoxygenation pathway. A Monte Carlo analysis is performed to examine the robustness of the financial performance by taking into consideration key uncertain parameters, including capital cost, oil content of seeds, and prices of feedstocks, gas, electricity, water, meal co-product, and crude oil (indicator of fuel product prices). The Monte Carlo analysis revealed that under the conditions analyzed, the probabilities that the net present value would be positive are 29% for camelina, 18% for carinata and 8% for UCO, indicating that the three projects are risky for investors. Sensitivity analysis determined that the projects' financial performance is highly sensitive to prices of fuel products and feedstocks. The impacts of two different hypothetical biofuel economic incentives were assessed: Carbon trading and tradable credits similar to the Renewable Identification Number (RIN). Income earned in the form of a RIN would have a large positive impact on the projects' viabilities. By assuming an incentive of $0.20/L of renewable fuel, the probabilities that the NPV would be positive are 85% for camelina, 75% for carinata and 58% for UCO. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000402343500033
ER

PT C
AU Li, YD
   Xie, ZM
   Mo, CM
   Chen, YG
   Wang, J
AF Li, Yangde
   Xie, Zaimi
   Mo, Chunmei
   Chen, Yuge
   Wang, Ji
GP IEEE
TI A low-power water quality monitoring system and prediction model
DE Water quality monitoring system; LoRa plus SG; GRU; PCA; K-means
AB A low-power water quality monitoring system is proposed to promote the development of offshore aquaculture informatization and realize intelligent monitoring of the offshore aquaculture environments. The STM32F103C8T6 controller is used to collect information such as light, temperature, humidity, and pH at regular intervals, and transmit the data to the cloud monitoring platform through LoRa+5G technology to realize remote monitoring of multi-area environmental information. An improved K-GRU prediction model is established by combining deep learning and an improved K-means clustering algorithm. The model to PCA algorithm and K-means clustering algorithm to achieve the selection of water quality key parameters, and its data as the output of the network input module; based on this input to the noise reduction module for noise reduction processing, the noise reduction data input to the network learning module for training and learning, the use of cross-validation and network search method to optimize the network parameters and structure, the trained prediction model predicts the key parameters of water quality. The accuracy and reliability of the system's marine environmental information collection and the effectiveness of the water quality key parameter prediction models are verified by example. Compared with the traditional K-GRU prediction model, RMSE is reduced by 5.6%, MAPE is reduced by 10.9%, and R2 is improved by 0.94%, which can meet the practical needs of offshore aquaculture water quality monitoring and prediction.
UT WOS:000893205800120
ER

PT C
AU Ariffin, MAM
   Marnerides, AK
   Mauthe, AU
AF Ariffin, Muhammad Azizi Mohd
   Marnerides, Angelos K.
   Mauthe, Andreas U.
GP IEEE
TI Multi-level Resilience in Networked Environments: Concepts & Principles
DE Resilience; cloud security; multi-level resilience
AB Resilience is an essential property for critical networked environments such as utility networks (e.g. gas, water and electricity grids), industrial control systems, and communication networks. Due to the complexity of such networked environments achieving resilience is multi-dimensional since it involves a range of factors such as redundancy and connectivity of different system components as well as availability, security, dependability and fault tolerance. Hence, it is of importance to address resilience within a unified framework that considers such factors and further enables the practical composition of resilience mechanisms. In this paper we firstly introduce the concepts and principles of Multi-Level Resilience (MLR) and then demonstrate its applicability in a particular cloud-based scenario.
UT WOS:000412117100067
ER

PT J
AU Yu, YQ
   Feng, YF
   Chen, LD
   Xi, TT
   Zhou, XY
   Xu, TT
   Xiao, HN
   Yao, SQ
   Gao, Y
   Dai, HQ
   Wang, ZG
   Bian, HY
AF Yu, Yaqian
   Feng, Yufan
   Chen, Lidong
   Xi, Tingting
   Zhou, Xueyi
   Xu, Tingting
   Xiao, Huining
   Yao, Shuangquan
   Gao, Ying
   Dai, Hongqi
   Wang, Zhiguo
   Bian, Huiyang
TI Bamboo Fiber Paper-Based Filter Material for Fast and Efficient Capture
   of Microplastics
DE bamboo fiber; filter material; microplastics; filtration mechanism; life
   cycle assessment
AB Aiming at the hot issue of global microplastics (MPs) pollution, an ecofriendly paper-based filter from bamboo-derived cellulose was developed through mechanical processing and traditional papermaking formation technology. The paper-based filter exhibited a stable capture efficiency of 98% and exceptional filtration flux of 21167 L m(-2) h(-1) for amine-modified polystyrene (PS-NH2, 5 mu m). Remarkably, filtration kinetics followed the intermediate blocking model (R-2 = 0.99), and the filter demonstrated excellent reusability, maintaining 99% efficiency after 10 cycles. Furthermore, it demonstrated remarkable universal adaptability, achieving >95% removal for polypropylene (PP), polyethylene (PE), and polyethylene terephthalate (PET), and also exhibited exceptional purification of three natural water samples. The superior capture performance stemmed from synergistic multiscale interactions between the microstructure and MPs, including physical interception, MP self-sedimentation effect, electrostatic interaction, hydrogen bonding, and pi-pi interactions. Life cycle assessment (LCA) confirmed a 48.8% reduction in global warming potential (GWP) unit energy consumption compared to conventional polymeric filters, with electricity and water consumption identified as primary environmental impacts via sensitivity and contribution analysis. Furthermore, a sustainable strategy was proposed to achieve MPs recovery and utilization. This work provides an efficient and environmentally friendly solution for microplastic remediation with significant potential for drinking water purification and MP separation in complex aquatic environments.
UT WOS:001598168100001
ER

PT J
AU Moosavian, SF
   Mirzaei, N
   Hajinezhad, A
   Yousefi, H
   Fattahi, R
   Golshadi, MR
AF Moosavian, Seyed Farhan
   Mirzaei, Negin
   Hajinezhad, Ahmad
   Yousefi, Hossein
   Fattahi, Reza
   Golshadi, Mohammad Reza
TI Thermodynamic, Economic, and Environmental Evaluation of Municipal Waste
   Incinerator to Produce Power and Fresh Water
DE economics; electricity; environment; fresh water; municipal solid waste;
   thermodynamics; waste incinerator
ID HEAT-RECOVERY; PLANT
AB In this study, three waste-to-energy (WTE) operational scenarios, that is, electricity-only production, fresh water-only production, and combined electricity and fresh water generation, were evaluated using Thermoflow software. The assessment was conducted based on the thermodynamic, economic, and environmental performance of a municipal solid waste incineration plant with a capacity of 1000 tons/day in Tehran, Iran. The simulated outputs for the three scenarios were 411,542 MWh of electricity (Scenario 1), 17,427,400 m3 of fresh water (Scenario 2), and 14,757,200 m3 of fresh water along with 143,819 MWh of electricity (Scenario 3). Despite the technical feasibility, the results revealed that all three configurations are economically unjustified under current electricity and water tariffs, primarily due to the high capital investment and low revenue from product sales. Among the scenarios, Scenario 2 (fresh water production) demonstrated the lowest levelized cost and yielded the highest net asset value ($14.65 million) compared with its initial cost of $36.65 million, assuming municipal gate fee support. Environmentally, all scenarios resulted in the emission of approximately 378,805 tons of CO2 and 1318 tons of SO2 annually. These findings underscore the need for policy incentives and tariff reform to improve the economic viability of integrated WTE-desalination systems in urban contexts.
UT WOS:001555444400001
ER

PT J
AU Vaseghi, G
   Myint, MT
   Ghassemi, A
AF Vaseghi, G.
   Myint, M. T.
   Ghassemi, A.
TI Optimal mass loading rate in low energetic full-scale reverse osmosis
   desalination
DE Mass loading rate; Total dissolved solids; Energy consumption; Low
   pressure; Reverse osmosis
ID NANOFILTRATION; TECHNOLOGY; MEMBRANES; REMOVAL
AB The optimized mass loading rates (MLR) of total dissolved solids (TDS) in low-pressure reverse osmosis (RO) membranes are determined from the efficiency of product water rate (PWR) (L/(min m(2) kN/m(2))). Determination of the loading rates is based on the same demineralization and water recovery rate between runs. Based on the efficiency for five different feed water TDS concentration, different optimal MLRs are obtained. Results show that pressurizing energy; and therefore, environmental impacts such as CO2 emission, can be reduced upon operation of extreme low-pressure RO elements, which in this study are AP-series of commercial membranes manufactured by GE Power and Water, at obtained optimal mass loading rates. Reverse osmosis using AP-series membranes is low energetic, hence beneficial for the high temperature applications as well.
UT WOS:000445126200003
ER

PT J
AU Kircher, K
   Shi, X
   Patil, S
   Zhang, KM
AF Kircher, K.
   Shi, X.
   Patil, S.
   Zhang, K. Max
TI Cleanroom energy efficiency strategies: Modeling and simulation
DE Energy efficiency; Cleanrooms; Building simulation; Demand-controlled
   filtration
AB To maintain ultra-low particle concentrations, cleanrooms can require several hundred air changes per hour. These ventilation rates make cleanrooms 30-50 times more energy intensive than the average U.S. commercial building. There are an estimated 12 million m(2) of cleanroom space in the U.S., consuming over 370 PJ of energy each year. This paper explores opportunities to improve the energy efficiency of cleanrooms while maintaining or improving operating conditions.
   This paper documents the modeling of a 1600 m(2) cleanroom in upstate New York. The TRNSYS model includes TMY2 weather data; building geometry and material properties: empirical data on occupancy, lighting and process equipment; and sophisticated HVAC systems. The model was validated based on metered steam, chilled water and electricity usage. Under 8% error was achieved in all fields.
   Four strategies were simulated: a heat recovery system for exhaust air, resulting in an 11.4% energy reduction with a 2.7-year simple payback; solar preheating of desiccant dehumidifier regeneration air (2.4% energy reduction, 11.5-year payback): improved lighting controls (0.3% energy reduction, 1.5-year payback); and demand-controlled filtration (4.4% energy reduction, 3.1-year payback). Implementation of recommended strategies is predicted to save 9 TJ, 862 tonnes of CO2, and $164k annually. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000274135200002
ER

PT J
AU Darwish, MA
   Al Awadhi, FM
   Bin Amer, AO
AF Darwish, M. A.
   Al Awadhi, Fatimah M.
   Bin Amer, Anwar O.
TI Combining the nuclear power plant steam cycle with gas turbines
DE Nuclear power plant; Gas turbine; Steam turbine; Heat recovery super
   heater feed water heater; Efficiency, Light water (LW); Pressurized
   water reactor
ID ALTERNATIVE PRIMARY ENERGY; DESALTING PLANTS; KUWAIT
AB Nuclear steam power plants (NPP) are characterized by low efficiency, compared to steam power plants using fossil fuels. This is due to the relatively low temperature and pressure-throttling conditions of the NPP compared to those using fossil fuel. The light water pressurized water reactor (LW PWR) commercially known as AP600 was suggested for Kuwait cogeneration power desalting plant (CPDP). It has 600 MW nominal power capacity and 33% overall efficiency. Meanwhile, the Kuwaiti Ministry of Electricity and Water (MEW) installed plenty of gas turbines (GTs) to cover the drastic increase in the peak electrical load during the summer season. Combining some of these GTs with the AP600 can increase the capacity and efficiency of the combined plant, compared to either the CT open cycle or the NPP separate plants. This paper investigates the feasibility of utilizing the hot gases leaving the CT to superheat the steam leaving the steam generator of the AP600 NPP, as well as heating the feed water returning to the steam generator of the NPP condenser. This drastically increases the power output and the efficiency of the NPR Detailed modifications to the NPP power cycle and the resulting enhancement of its performance are presented. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000286343000009
ER

PT J
AU Darwish, MA
   Abdulrahim, HK
   Amer, AB
AF Darwish, Mohamed A.
   Abdulrahim, Hassan K.
   Amer, Anwar B.
TI On better utilization of gas turbines in Kuwait
DE gas turbine; combined cycle; seawater reverse osmosis; multi-stage flash
   system; air intake cooling system; air emission
AB The Kuwaiti Ministry of Electricity and Water installed 16 gas turbine (GT) units of 2000 MW total generating capacity at Azzour South power plant (PP) and Sabbyia PP. These units are operating as a simple GT cycle by gas or oil fuel. The GT unit power output in Azzour PP is 163 MW at 15 degrees C ambient temperature (ISO conditions), and 125 MW at 46 degrees C (design outside air conditions). This paper suggests four variants for better utilization of these GT units. The first variant is to utilize these GT during off-peak hours to operate seawater reverse-osmosis desalting system. This increases the badly needed installed desalting capacity, decreases the specific energy consumed for desalting, and solves the problem of low water-to-power production ratio. The second variant is to add beat recovery steam generator to produce steam. This steam is used to operate multi-stage flashing units for more desalted water with no additional fuel energy. In the third variant, a gas/steam combined cycle is proposed to increase significantly both the installed capacity and efficiency. The fourth variant deals with cooling intake air to the compressor to increase the unit capacity when needed in hot days. (C) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000254666500004
ER

PT J
AU Shan, KP
   Luo, QZ
   Yun, PF
   Huang, L
   Huang, KM
   Cao, B
   Tang, B
   Jiang, HF
AF Shan, Kunpeng
   Luo, Qizhao
   Yun, Panfeng
   Huang, Lu
   Huang, Kaiming
   Cao, Bin
   Tang, Bin
   Jiang, Haifeng
TI All-day working photovoltaic cooling system for simultaneous generation
   of water and electricity by latent heat recycling
DE Photovoltaic cooling; Solar-driven interfacial water evaporation; Phase
   change material; Latent heat recovery; Thermoelectric effect
ID RECENT PROGRESS
AB The photovoltaic (PV) cooling system based on solar-driven interfacial water evaporation (SIWE) system can effectively reduce the temperature of PV panels and obtain fresh water, but it cannot work at night during which there is no heat source input. In this work, we proposed a novel SIWE-based PV cooling systems with optimized performance that can achieve all-day working. In this hybrid system, the heat generated by the PV panel is extracted as the form of vaporization latent heat through membrane distillation (MD). Then it transferred along with the condensation of water vapor and stored in Phase Change Material (PCM), which is used to achieve electric power generation by thermoelectric effect at night. The hybrid system can achieve an 19.5 % improvement of output power compared with that without cooling method. Additionally, a 1.55 kg m(-2) h(-1) fresh water output with a salt rejection rate more than 99.9 % are realized under 3-sun irradiation. At the same time, it can also achieve a peak power output of 6 W m(-2) at night by the release of latent heat stored in PCM. This hybrid system may provide a new idea to broaden application scenarios of traditional SIWE-based PV cooling systems.
UT WOS:000923023700001
ER

PT J
AU Panora, R
   Gehret, JE
   Furse, MM
   Lasseter, RH
AF Panora, Robert
   Gehret, Joseph E.
   Furse, Melinda M.
   Lasseter, Robert H.
TI Real-World Performance of a CERTS Microgrid in Manhattan
DE Combined heat and power (CHP); Consortium for Electric Reliability
   Technology Solutions (CERTS); distributed generation; distributed
   resource; islanding; low emissions; microgrid
AB The Consortium for Electric Reliability Technology Solutions (CERTS) microgrid technology enabled the Brevoort, a 1950's era luxury co-op tower in Greenwich Village, NY, USA, to maintain power, water, and heat during the week of wide spread utility outages left in the wake of Hurricane Sandy in late 2012. The microgrid system, anchored by four 100-kW hybrid combined heat and power (CHP), uniquely able to seamlessly transition between grid tie and island-mode operation, powered the entire building including the central boilers, domestic water pumps, elevators, and all apartments, while most buildings in the lower third of Manhattan were without power, heat, and, in many cases, water. The Brevoort co-op board was elected to convert the 20-story building from oil heat to the natural gas CHP system as part of an energy-efficiency green initiative that was fully implemented in 2010. In New York City, these hybrid cogeneration systems can operate in parallel with Con Edison utilities during periods of regularly available power. During a power grid failure, the units, with their permanent magnet generators and inverters with built-in CERTS microgrid technology, will autonomously transition to island mode and continue powering the residences.
UT WOS:000343834200036
ER

PT C
AU Sharma, R
   Bash, C
   Marwah, M
   Patel, C
   Christian, T
AF Sharma, Ratnesh
   Bash, Cullen
   Marwah, Manish
   Patel, Chandrakant
   Christian, Tom
GP ASME
TI MICROGRIDS: A NEW APPROACH TO SUPPLY-SIDE DESIGN FOR DATA CENTERS
AB Growth in IT infrastructure driven by socio-economic demand for services has led to the creation of large data centers. There is a need for cost-effective and sustainable design and management of such data centers. From this perspective, evolutionary changes in the regulatory and operational climate of traditional electrical and energy utilities has created new opportunities for development of data centers with low TCO and environmental footprint. These opportunities primarily exist on developing unique supply-side architectures for delivery of power, water and other resources to service data centers. Concurrent emergence of smaller heat and power generating systems also provides novel options to create solutions that improve the reliability and scalability of supply-side infrastructures in data centers.
   In this paper we investigate the impact of combined heat and power generation in operation of data centers in reducing TCO and environmental footprint and improving operational reliability. Usage of natural resources like water, fuel is minimized to create a low footprint IT infrastructure. Through use of mix of on-site power generation technologies alongside energy and water storage we create a power, cooling and water microgrid for the data center. Such microgrids are a promising way to capture the significant potential of smaller distributed energy resources to meet growing demands for low footprint IT infrastructures.
UT WOS:000282196500015
ER

PT J
AU Kamp, U
   Binder, W
   Hölzl, K
AF Kamp, Ulrich
   Binder, Walter
   Hoelzl, Konrad
TI River habitat monitoring and assessment in Germany
DE Germany; habitat assessment; hydromorphological assessment; river
   monitoring; river rehabilitation; river quality
ID EVALUATING RIVERS; RUNNING WATERS; INTEGRITY; QUALITY
AB Whereas assessing the biological and chemical quality of water is a standard environmental procedure in many countries, the use of habitat survey methods that assess the ecomorphological quality of rivers is relatively new. In Europe, the EC Water Framework Directive requires such assessment from all EU Member States. In Germany, the first river habitat assessments were introduced in the late 1990s. Each federal state develops its own river habitat map using the 'On-site Survey' and/or the 'Overview Survey'. The assessment describes the difference of the actual condition from a previously defined reference condition. In practice, a defined 'potential for restoration', a more realistic condition, makes restoration activities much easier and more successful. In Germany, the first River Habitat Map 2001 was published in 2002. The survey covered 33,000 km of river length, which equates to 10% of all rivers. A wide range from 'Undisturbed' (class 1) to 'Totally Disturbed' (class 7) river units exists; 77% of them are 'Clearly Disturbed' (class 4) or in worse condition. These result reflects extensive anthropogenic impact on the environment in general, but also past intense technical river 'improvements' that focused on the protection of settlements and traffic routes from flooding, better shipping conditions, the use of water power, and drainage of floodplains for agriculture and urban development. For comparability of survey results between EU Member States, a harmonization of national survey methods is in progress. A crucial point here is the definition of the reference condition for each river (near-natural conditions), since it influences the survey results.
UT WOS:000244687000020
ER

PT J
AU Ahmed, M
   Arakel, A
   Hoey, D
   Coleman, M
AF Ahmed, M
   Arakel, A
   Hoey, D
   Coleman, M
TI Integrated power, water and salt generation: a discussion paper
DE bitterns; brine disposal; salinity-gradient ponds; aquaculture
AB Cogeneration of electricity and desalinised water - for water production - is an accepted principle in many countries. However, there is an opportunity to extend the concept to obtain greater efficiencies by reassessing the desalination paradigm. The new paradigm considers desalination as only part of the saline water processing chain. It looks at value-adding opportunities through further processing of salt by-products, particularly bitterns. It considers aspects such as multiple use of evaporation basins, electricity generation from solar ponds using bitterns as a main constituent, and opportunities for resource recovery from bitterns. Above all, it considers the integration of water, salt and power production, as a mutually supporting system. The overall concept of better integration of water, salt and power production is discussed with a focus on the utilisation of saline effluent from desalination plants.
UT WOS:000168136100006
ER

PT C
AU Yu, XR
   Liu, JF
   Zhao, L
   Wang, XB
AF Yu Xiaoran
   Liu Jianfei
   Zhao Lin
   Wang Xianbin
BE Qi, J
   Cui, JP
TI Design of AMR data terminator equipment with GPRS
DE AMR (Automatic Meter Reading); GPRS; MC35i; MSP430F149
AB Automatic Meter Reading is a new technology which is applied to data acquisition. transmission and processing to water. power. and gas' supply and management. This paper introduces a data terminator designed for wireless automatic meter reading system based on MC35i GPRS module, which can switch communications mode between GPRS and SMS. As GPRS supports TCP/IP protocol. it can make wireless data transmission convenient by access to Internet and by a kind of protocol to finish the date reading work. The communication of protocol of this system is given out. A modification suggestion on PPP dial-up progress is proposed and the whole Structure of hardware and software of the equipment is described. The MSP430F149 is selected as the core component of this platform. which can decrease the system's power consumption, increase the terminal's reliability.
UT WOS:000243723700084
ER

PT C
AU Frank, T
AF Frank, Thomas
GP ICCEX
TI LYOPHILIZATION/ FREEZE-DRYING AND SOLVENT RECOVERY WITH AIR
   REFRIGERATION
DE Refrigeration; Energy Efficiency; Ultra low temperature; Lyophilization;
   Pharmaceuticals; Plasma; Solvent; gas recovery
AB In November 2019, HOF Sonderanlagenbau GmbH and Refolution Industriekalte GmbH retrofitted a lyophilization system from 1996 using R404a as refrigerant. The vapor compression unit was replaced by a state-of-the-art air refrigeration machine with a special hydraulic system. The air cycle refrigeration machine is completely oil free and uses an air bearing turbo-expander from Mirai Intex s.r.o. To minimize the required refrigeration units and simultaneously achieving high cooling loads during freezing, the system uses a buffer tank. The CryoBlizzard can handle the complete lyophilization process (-40 degrees C freezing and -80 degrees C drying) at consistent cold water and power consumption, thus reducing peak loads. Energy comparisons of the prototype and a well-established freeze dryer showed promising results for the future of air cycle refrigeration for lyophilization applications. The prototype system is up to 19% more efficient on the complete production run if compared with the old solution. Air refrigeration is a future proof technology without regulations of the refrigerant, reliable and safe for humans and the nature. In 2020 HOF extended the prototype with a plasma freezer (-70 degrees C) and used it as a central refrigeration system and realized temperatures down to -110 degrees C.
   A further milestone in air cycle refrigeration was achieved in 2021 by developing and constructing a solvent recovery plant that can recycle up to 99% ethanol and acetone of several exhaust gas streams. It replaced an old HFC system with a climate and environmentally safe system and additionally recovers more solvent
UT WOS:001304907400023
ER

PT J
AU Golara, A
   Esmaeily, A
AF Golara, A.
   Esmaeily, A.
TI Quantification and Enhancement of the Resilience of Infrastructure
   Networks
DE Resilience; Infrastructure; Natural gas network; Natural gas demand;
   Natural gas production; Forecasting natural gas production; Forecasting
   Iranian gas demand
ID SYSTEMS; RISK; VULNERABILITY; DEFINITION
AB In this paper, network resilience is quantified by generalization of various notions used in the mathematical theory of network resilience. This algorithm is then used to create a quantitative framework for the resilience characterization of high-pressure natural gas networks. The key concepts are the notions of a network with associated delivery function and delivery importance. No model is available in the literature to measure the performance of high-pressure natural gas networks. In this paper, a new index measuring delivery importance of a gas network is proposed to evaluate the resilience of the entire network. The methodology can be used to consider and quantify the effects of any type of natural disasters such as earthquake and fire, or artificial hazards such as deliberate attacks on the system that may lead to the disruption of the system. The principles and theories applied to the natural gas supply and distribution network in this study can also be applied to other infrastructures that are interconnected and operate as a network, such as the electrical power and water supply and distribution systems. Furthermore, the present paper shows the characteristics of production and demand of natural gas in Iran and provides a data-based estimation of the future growth in production and consumption that is used in assessment of the resilience at a specific time in future. (C) 2016 American Society of Civil Engineers
UT WOS:000394239400004
ER

PT J
AU Coppitters, D
   Contino, F
   El-Baz, A
   Breuhaus, P
   De Paepe, W
AF Coppitters, Diederik
   Contino, Francesco
   El-Baz, Ahmed
   Breuhaus, Peter
   De Paepe, Ward
TI Techno-economic feasibility study of a solar-powered distributed
   cogeneration system producing power and distillate water: Sensitivity
   and exergy analysis
DE Distributed cogeneration; Levelized cost of water; Micro gas turbine;
   Multi-effect distillation with thermal vapour compression; Sensitivity
   and exergy analysis
ID MICRO-GAS-TURBINES; WASTE HEAT-RECOVERY; MIDDLE-EAST; DESALINATION;
   PERFORMANCE; OPTIMIZATION; ENERGY; AFRICA; DESIGN; CYCLES
AB To satisfy the increasing demand for energy and potable water, large-scale cogeneration is widely integrated. However, in remote locations, the lack of power system infrastructure limits the integration of large-scale systems. Consequently, a large portion of inhabitants has no access to electricity and the pressure on groundwater resources increases drastically. To address this power and water scarcity, a distributed cogeneration system consisting of a solar-powered micro Gas Turbine and desalination system is considered. Since the integration of solar energy in distributed cogeneration systems is uncertain, we performed a feasibility study. This paper covers the modelling, sensitivity and exergy analysis and 3 desalination systems designs, each making a trade-off between smaller plant size and higher performance. Introducing solar energy in the micro gas turbine results in an increase in electrical efficiency by 3.2% absolute. The proposed designs achieve a levelized cost of water between 1.78$/(m(3)/d) and 1.92$/(m(3)/d), which is comparable with conventional solar-powered desalina-tion plants. Therefore, these designs demonstrate the feasibility of integrating solar energy in distributed cogeneration systems and provide a promising solution towards cost-efficient, renewable-based power and water cogeneration in remote locations. The future work will enhance the economic analysis by including an intermittent solar energy supply. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000518874500094
ER

PT J
AU Kim, DH
   Yoo, JC
   Hwang, BR
   Yang, JS
   Baek, K
AF Kim, Do-Hyung
   Yoo, Jong-Chan
   Hwang, Bo-Ram
   Yang, Jung-Seok
   Baek, Kitae
TI Environmental assessment on electrokinetic remediation of
   multimetal-contaminated site: a case study
DE Environmental assessment; Electrokinetic remediation;
   Multimetal-contaminated site; Green and sustainable remediation
ID LIFE-CYCLE ASSESSMENT; SALINE SOIL; LCA; RESTORATION; SCALE; PB;
   TECHNOLOGIES; ALTERNATIVES; EXTRACTION; IMPACTS
AB In this study, an environmental assessment on an electrokinetic (EK) system for the remediation of a multimetal-contaminated real site was conducted using a green and sustainable remediation (GSR) tool. The entire EK process was classified into major four phases consisting of remedial investigations (RIs), remedial action construction (RAC), remedial action operation (RAO), and long-term monitoring (LTM) for environmental assessment. The environmental footprints, including greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, total energy used, air emissions of criteria pollutants, such as NOx, SOx, and PM10, and water consumption, were calculated, and the relative contribution in each phase was analyzed in the environmental assessment. In the RAC phase, the relative contribution of the GHG emissions, total energy used, and PM10 emissions were 77.3, 67.6, and 70.4 %, respectively, which were higher than those of the other phases because the material consumption and equipment used for system construction were high. In the RAO phase, the relative contributions of water consumption and NOx and SOx emissions were 94.7, 85.2, and 91.0 %, respectively, which were higher than those of the other phases, because the water and electricity consumption required for system operation was high. In the RIs and LTM phases, the environmental footprints were negligible because the material and energy consumption was less. In conclusion, the consumable materials and electrical energy consumption might be very important for GSR in the EK remediation process, because the production of consumable materials and electrical energy consumption highly affects the GHG emissions, total energy used, and air emissions such as NOx and SOx.
UT WOS:000336314900047
ER

PT J
AU Alhamad, K
   Alkhezi, Y
AF Alhamad, Khaled
   Alkhezi, Yousuf
TI Hybrid Genetic Algorithm and Tabu Search for Solving Preventive
   Maintenance Scheduling Problem for Cogeneration Plants
DE preventive maintenance; scheduling; optimization; genetic algorithm;
   tabu search; metaheuristic
ID OPTIMIZATION; COST; MODEL
AB Preventive Maintenance (PM) is a periodic maintenance strategy that has great results for devices in extending their lives, increasing productivity, and, most importantly, helping to avoid unexpected breakdowns and their costly consequences. Preventive maintenance scheduling (PMS) is determining the time for carrying out PM, and it represents a sensitive issue in terms of impact on production if the time for the PM process is not optimally distributed. This study employs hybrid heuristic methods, integrating Genetic Algorithm (GA) and Tabu Search (TS), to address the PMS problem. Notably, the search for an optimal solution remained elusive with GA alone until the inclusion of TS. The resultant optimal solution is achieved swiftly, surpassing the time benchmarks set by conventional methods like integer programming and nonlinear integer programming. A comparison with a published article that used metaheuristics was also applied in order to evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed hybrid approach in terms of solution quality and convergence speed. Moreover, sensitivity analysis underscores the robustness and efficacy of the hybrid approach, consistently yielding optimal solutions across diverse scenarios. The schedule created exceeds standards set by waterworks experts, yielding significant water and electricity surpluses-16.6% and 12.1%, respectively-while simultaneously matching or surpassing total production levels. This method can be used for power plants in private or public sectors to generate an optimal PMS, save money, and avoid water or electricity cuts. In summary, this hybrid approach offers an efficient and effective solution for optimizing PMS, presenting opportunities for enhancement across various industries.
UT WOS:001256808800001
ER

PT J
AU Geng, ZQ
   Chen, J
   Han, YM
AF Geng, Zhiqiang
   Chen, Jie
   Han, Yongming
TI Energy Efficiency Prediction Based on PCA-FRBF Model: A Case Study of
   Ethylene Industries
DE Energy efficiency prediction; ethylene plants; fuzzy C-means (FCM)
   algorithm; principal component analysis (PCA); radial basis function
   (RBF); RBF neural network based on FCM algorithm (FRBF) integrated with
   PCA technology (PCA-FRBF)
ID PRINCIPAL COMPONENT ANALYSIS; RBF NEURAL-NETWORK; ALGORITHM; INDEX
AB Energy conservation and emission reduction in the ethylene industry is the main way to attain sustainable development, which can be achieved if the energy efficiency of petrochemical industries can be accurately analyzed and predicted. This paper proposes an improved radial basis function neural network based on fuzzy C-means (FCM) algorithm integrated with principal component analysis (PCA) technology (PCA-FRBF). The PCA is used to denoise and reduce dimensions of data to decrease the training time and errors of the modeling process. The FCM is used to separate every fuzzy class in input space and decide the number of neurons in hidden layer to overcome the shortcoming of setting them by experience subjectively. Meanwhile, the robustness and effectiveness of the PCA-FRBF model are validated through the standard data set from the University of California Irvine repository. Moreover, to predict the energy efficiency of ethylene plants, a multi-inputs and single-output model of energy efficiency is established based on the PCA-FRBF for monthly data of ethylene production process. We obtain a rational allocation of crude oil, fuel, steam, water, and electricity, and the greatest benefit of ethylene plants under different technologies. Finally, the empirical results show the effectiveness and practicability of the PCA-FRBF model applied to predict and guide the ethylene production in the petrochemical industry.
UT WOS:000411096800001
ER

PT C
AU Gupta, C
   Swain, TK
   Bandi, VSS
   Rahman, MF
AF Gupta, Chandan
   Swain, T. K.
   Bandi, Venkata Sai Surendra
   Rahman, Muhammed Faisal
BE Pandey, M
   Umamahesh, NV
   Ahmad, Z
   Valyrakis, M
TI Revitalizing India's Aging Dams-An Electrical Engineering Approach to
   Sustainable Rehabilitation
DE Sustainable rehabilitation; Aging dams in India; Smart grid; Long-term
   viability; Advance monitoring; Control system
ID RENEWABLE ENERGY; MANAGEMENT; POWER; GENERATION; HYDROPOWER; PROSPECTS;
   CHINA
AB For the security of its water and electricity, India has a vast network of dams. However, as many of these dams were constructed many years ago, they now need to be renovated due to aging. This poses a substantial engineering problem because the restoration work must not only guarantee the dam's structural integrity but also incorporate environmentally friendly procedures for long-term operation. Electrical engineering has a key role to play in India's sustainable rehabilitation of deteriorating dams. By utilizing contemporary turbine-generator technology, many dams can increase their ability to generate electricity. By producing more electricity with the same amount of water, new turbines can improve a dam's efficiency and lessen its environmental impact. The monitoring and control system of the dam needs to be improved as part of sustainable rehabilitation. Modern sensing technologies enable operators to optimize dam operations for optimal efficiency and safety by providing real-timemonitoring ofwater levels, temperature, and other characteristics. Last but not least, electrical engineers can help create a smart grid system that uses renewable energy sources like solar and wind power. This can improve the overall sustainability of the dam and help India meet its growing demand for electricity while reducing its dependence on fossil fuels. A sustainable rehabilitation approach to India's aging dams must encompass a range of electrical engineering solutions to ensure their long-term viability. Upgrading the dam's turbines, implementing advanced monitoring and control systems, and developing a smart grid system can all contribute to achieving this goal.
UT WOS:001586901300025
ER

PT C
AU Gupta, C
   Swain, TK
   Bandi, VSS
   Rahman, MF
AF Gupta, Chandan
   Swain, T. K.
   Bandi, Venkat Sai Surendra
   Rahman, Muhammed Faisal
BE Pandey, M
   Umamahesh, NV
   Ahmad, Z
   Oliveto, G
TI Revitalizing India's Aging Dams-An Electrical Engineering Approach to
   Sustainable Rehabilitation
DE Sustainable rehabilitation; Aging dams in India; Smart grid; Long-term
   viability; Advance monitoring; Control system
ID RENEWABLE ENERGY; MANAGEMENT; POWER; GENERATION; HYDROPOWER; PROSPECTS;
   CHINA
AB For the security of its water and electricity, India has a vast network of dams. However, as many of these dams were constructed many years ago, they now need to be renovated due to aging. This poses a substantial engineering problem because the restoration work must not only guarantee the dam's structural integrity but also incorporate environmentally friendly procedures for long-term operation. Electrical engineering has a key role to play in India's sustainable rehabilitation of deteriorating dams. By utilizing contemporary turbine-generator technology, many dams can increase their ability to generate electricity. By producing more electricity with the same amount of water, new turbines can improve a dam's efficiency and lessen its environmental impact. The monitoring and control system of the dam needs to be improved as part of sustainable rehabilitation. Modern sensing technologies enable operators to optimize dam operations for optimal efficiency and safety by providing real-timemonitoring ofwater levels, temperature, and other characteristics. Last but not least, electrical engineers can help create a smart grid system that uses renewable energy sources like solar and wind power. This can improve the overall sustainability of the dam and help India meet its growing demand for electricity while reducing its dependence on fossil fuels. A sustainable rehabilitation approach to India's aging dams must encompass a range of electrical engineering solutions to ensure their long-term viability. Upgrading the dam's turbines, implementing advanced monitoring and control systems, and developing a smart grid system can all contribute to achieving this goal.
UT WOS:001586893700029
ER

PT J
AU Liao, WL
   Zhu, RJ
   Yang, Y
   Jia, YX
   Yang, Z
   Rehtanz, C
AF Liao, Wenlong
   Zhu, Ruijin
   Yang, Yue
   Jia, Yixiong
   Yang, Zhe
   Rehtanz, Christian
TI Electricity Theft Detection With Multi-Source Data: Integrating
   Electricity, Water, and Gas
DE Electricity; Correlation; Machine learning; Electric potential;
   Correlation coefficient; Biological system modeling; Springs;
   Intelligent sensors; Electric variables measurement; Accuracy; Smart
   meter; abnormal detection; advanced metering infrastructure; electricity
   theft; deep learning
AB Recently, significant progress has been achieved in electricity theft detection through various machine learning models. However, most of these efforts rely solely on electricity consumption readings to detect fraudulent users, neglecting the role of a multi-utility metering infrastructure that can enhance detection accuracy. This paper presents an innovative method that integrates gas and water consumption readings to detect electricity theft, aiming to enhance detection accuracy and measurement reliability. First, a thorough qualitative and quantitative analysis is conducted to examine correlations between electricity, gas, and water consumption, highlighting the potential of a multi-faceted metering approach. Then, the electricity, gas, and water readings are transformed into graphs to represent inherent correlations across utilities. Next, a new graph convolutional network with trainable skip connections (GCSC) is specifically designed to capture latent features and correlations from graphs, and project the graphs into user labels. Simulation results show that the integration of gas and water consumption readings significantly improves the performance of various machine learning models in theft detection performance. Also, the proposed GCSC model consistently outperforms classical and recent machine learning models on datasets with varying fraudulent ratios, which highlights the benefits of a comprehensive measurement infrastructure in advancing utility theft detection.
UT WOS:001681150000007
ER

PT C
AU Huang, Z
   Xu, ZW
AF Huang, Zhou
   Xu, Zheng Wang
BE Sung, WP
   Kao, JCM
TI A Novel Motor-Speed-Regulation Method
AB The traditional doubly-fed motor has less reliability because it needs carbon brushes and sliding rings which are not highly reliable. The brushless doubly-fed machine costs a lot for its framework requires special designing and processing. To overcome the disadvantages of the two kinds of motors, this paper focuses on a novel method of motor speed regulation which is based on rotating feeding. The motor speed changing around its rated speed can be realized based on the method without any carbon brush or sliding ring on the prosaic electrical motors. On the basis of the full controlled thyristor rectifying bridge structure, the basic idea is introduced; the advantages and disadvantages of this method are analyzed. This kind of systems can replace the brushed or brushless double-fed systems. They are very suitable for driving fans or pumps, or power-generating systems with variable speed constant frequency such as wind power or water power generating systems.
UT WOS:000372705800150
ER

PT C
AU DiCampli, J
AF DiCampli, James
GP ASME
TI COMBINED HEAT AND POWER GAS TURBINE OPERATIONAL FLEXIBILITY
AB Combined heat and power (GIP) is an application that utilizes the exhaust heat generated from a gas turbine and converts it into a useful energy source for heating & cooling, or additional electric generation in combined cycle configurations. Compared to simple-cycle plants with no heat recovery, CHP plants emit fewer greenhouse gasses and other emissions, while generating significantly more useful energy per unit of fuel consumed. Clean plants are easier to permit, build and operate. Because of these advantages, projections show CHP capacity is expected to double and account for 24% of global electricity production by 2030. An aeroderivative power plant has distinct advantages to meet CHP needs. These include high thermal efficiency, low cost, easy installation, proven reliability, compact design for urban areas, simple operation and maintenance, fuel flexibility, and full power generation in a very short time period.
   There has been extensive discussion and analyses on modifying purge requirements on cycling units for faster dispatch. The National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) has required an air purge of downstream systems prior to startup to preclude potentially flammable or explosive conditions. The auto ignition temperature of natural gas fuel is around 800 degrees F. Experience has shown that if the exhaust duct contains sufficient concentrations of captured gas fuel, and is not purged, it can ignite immediately during light off causing extensive damage to downstream equipment.
   The NFPA Boiler and Combustion Systems Hazards Code Committee have developed new procedures to safely provide for a fast-start capability. The change in the code was issued in the 2011 Edition of NFPA 85 and titled the Combustion Turbine Purge Credit. For a cycling plant and hot start conditions, implementation of purge credit can reduce normal start-to-load by 15 30 minutes. Part of the time saving is the reduction of the purge time itself, and the rest is faster ramp rates due to a higher initial temperature and pressure in the heat recovery steam generator (HRSG).
   This paper details the technical analysis and implementation of the NFPA purge credit recommendations on GE Power and Water aeroderivative gas turbines. This includes the hardware changes, triple block and double vent valve system (or drain for liquid fuels), and software changes that include monitoring and alarms managed by the control system.
UT WOS:000361499900061
ER

PT J
AU Chen, H
   Zhang, L
   Mo, JZ
   Martin, KE
AF Chen, Heng
   Zhang, Lin
   Mo, Jianzhong
   Martin, Kenneth E.
TI Synchrophasor-based real-time state estimation and situational awareness
   system for power system operation
DE Synchrophasor; Linear state estimator; Situational awareness; Power
   system operation
ID TRANSITION
AB State estimation is a critical functionality of energy management system (EMS) to provide power system states in real-time operations. However, problems such as failure to converge, prone to failure during contingencies, and biased estimates while system is under stressed condition occur so that state estimation results may not be reliable. The unreliable results further impact downstream network and market applications, such as contingency analysis, voltage stability analysis, transient stability analysis, system alarming, and unit commitment. Thus, operators may lose the awareness of system condition in EMS. This paper proposes a fully independent and one-of-a-kind system by integrating linear state estimator into situational awareness applications based on real-time synchrophasor data. With guaranteed and accurate state estimation solution and advanced real-time data analytic and monitoring functionalities, the system is capable of assisting operators to assess and diagnose current system conditions for proactive and necessary corrective actions. The architecture, building components, and implementation of the proposed system are explored in detail. Two case studies with simulated data from the subsystems of Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) and Los Angeles Department of Water and Power (LADWP) are presented. The test results show the effectiveness and reliability of the system, and its value for real-time power system operations.
UT WOS:000380709700007
ER

PT J
AU Hunakunti, A
   Mcbratney, AB
   Minasny, B
   Field, DJ
AF Hunakunti, Anilkumar
   Mcbratney, Alex B.
   Minasny, Budiman
   Field, Damien J.
TI Assessing soil erosion vulnerability using a novel capacity-condition
   framework (CCF): A case study from New South Wales, Australia
DE Soil erosion; Capacity; Condition; Soil erosion risk; Soil security;
   Topsoil thickness; Clay ratio; Erosion risk capability
ID LAND-USE CHANGES; ORGANIC-CARBON; CLIMATE-CHANGE; TOPSOIL THICKNESS;
   SHEAR-STRENGTH; WATER EROSION; DEGRADATION; QUALITY; SYSTEMS; LANDSCAPE
AB Soil water erosion is a major threat to long-term soil sustainability. However, challenges remain in capturing how both natural and human-induced erosion processes interact over space and time to influence soil degradation. Current assessment methods often overlook how erosion simultaneously weakens the soil's inherent resistance (capacity) and degrades its current state (condition)-key drivers of long-term vulnerability and two core dimensions of soil security. To address this, we present a Capacity-Condition (CCF) framework, which quantifies erosion vulnerability using the erosion risk capability metric, which captures the gap between a soil's inherent resistance to erosion (capacity) and its erosion-altered state (condition). The framework employs the pedogeonon concept, identifying unique landscape units where the same soil-forming factors operate over time. Within each pedogeonon, two soil states are compared: genosoil (conditions influenced by natural erosion) and phenosoil (present state shaped by both natural and human-accelerated erosion). Capacity is assessed using genosoil indicators (clay ratio and topsoil thickness), and condition is evaluated using the phenosoil/ genosoil ratio for the same indicators. Utility functions standardize these indicators on a 0-1 scale, enabling their aggregation into composite scores. When applied to New South Wales (NSW), Australia, the framework identified regions most vulnerable to erosion. Coastal areas and the upper northwest, characterized by intensive dry cropping and grazing on modified pastures, exhibited the highest risk values, indicating a lower capability to withstand future erosion. Conversely, regions with mixed land use-including grazing on native vegetation, intensive horticulture, and irrigated cropping-showed moderate risk, demonstrating the framework's utility for targeted, spatially explicit soil conservation and land management planning. (c) 2025 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water & Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
UT WOS:001586822800001
ER

PT J
AU Chen, X
   Wang, RZ
   Wang, LW
   Du, S
AF Chen, X.
   Wang, R. Z.
   Wang, L. W.
   Du, S.
TI A modified ammonia-water power cycle using a distillation stage for more
   efficient power generation
DE Ammonia-water binary fluids; Kalina cycle; ORC; Optimization
ID ORGANIC RANKINE-CYCLE; WASTE HEAT-RECOVERY; KALINA CYCLE; COGENERATION
   CYCLE; ABSORPTION CYCLES; EXERGY ANALYSIS; GAS-TURBINE; OPTIMIZATION;
   SYSTEM; ENERGY
AB An ammonia-water power cycle with a distillation stage is proposed, two Kalina cycles and one Organic Rankine Cycle (ORC) are selected for comparisons under two scenarios: medium (346 degrees C) and low (146 degrees C) heat source temperatures. The optimization efforts are aimed at maximizing net power production for all concerning cycles, the results show that the proposed cycle can produce 9% and 8% more power than the reference Kalina cycles, while a better thermal performance is achieved for thermal efficiency and exergy efficiency. When the proposed cycle compares with ORC, the amount of net power can be produced is improved by 9% and 3%, respectively. On the other hand, the thermal performance of Kalina cycles and ORC are largely relied on the design of internal heat exchangers, requiring relatively larger size of internal heat exchangers. The proposed cycle, however, is much more compact because of less amount of internal heat transfer needed, leading to less irreversibilities. The proposed cycle can be further simplified by using a solution cooled absorber which eventually decreases the system complexity. A parametrical study shows that the proposed cycle has a better capability of adaptation to a wider temperature range of heat source conditions while maintaining a better performance. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000415769300001
ER

PT J
AU Lubega, WN
   Stillwell, AS
AF Lubega, William N.
   Stillwell, Ashlynn S.
TI Analyzing the economic value of thermal power plant cooling water
   consumption
DE Electricity-water nexus; Thermal power plants; Water markets; Demand
   analysis
ID GENERATION; DEMAND; ENERGY; US; VULNERABILITY; DROUGHT; CLIMATE; SYSTEM;
   NEXUS
AB The consumption of water by thermal power plants for cooling purposes has presented several policy and resource allocation challenges in the recent past. There is need for improved economic understanding of thermal power plant water consumption to better address these challenges. In this paper, we examine the economic efficiency of water consumption substitutes for existing thermal power plants. In the long run, a power plant could reduce water consumption by investing in efficiency improvements. In the short run, a power plant could reduce water consumption by curtailing power output. The analysis presented in this paper demonstrates that these substitutes are not economically efficient; water prices in excess of $1.00/m(3) would be required for power plants to make efficiency investments or curtail output. Thermal power plants are therefore not attractive targets for water consumption reduction initiatives based on pricing alone. Furthermore, in the long run, efficiency improvements only show significant water reduction potential for the most inefficient plants. However, the findings of the short run analysis indicate that since thermal power plants are willing to pay water prices in excess of $1.00/m(3) before curtailing output, these power plants do not require free reallocation of water from senior water rights holders during periods of scarcity, as has been the practice in several regions. Instead, a more efficient water policy focus would be creation of enabling environments for water market transactions. Such water market transactions could help balance competing water demands during periods of scarcity, while maintaining reliable electricity supply.
UT WOS:000477807300005
ER

PT J
AU Yan, M
   Ma, Y
   Li, MQ
   Hu, DJ
   Ma, CY
AF Yan, Min
   Ma, Yang
   Li, Minqiang
   Hu, Dejun
   Ma, Chunyuan
TI Improved Lignite Predrying System Integrated with Heat and Water
   Recovery from Wet Flue Gas at Lignite-Fired Power Plants: Energy and
   Water Conservation
DE Lignite predrying; Flue gas condensation; Energy conservation; Water
   conservation; Lignite-fired power plant
ID WASTE HEAT; THERMODYNAMIC ANALYSIS; LATENT-HEAT; COAL; TECHNOLOGIES;
   EFFICIENCY; DESIGN; SCALE; FUEL; PUMP
AB To improve energy efficiency and reduce water consumption simultaneously in lignite-tired power plants, an improved lignite predrying system integrated with heat and water recovery from wet flue gas is proposed in this study. In the proposed system, the heat source for the lignite predrying system was the latent heat from the flue gas instead of the extracted steam, so the extracted steam could return to the turbine to generate more power. Moreover, both the water from the raw lignite and wet flue gas desulfurization (WFGD) processes were recovered, which minimized the water consumption of lignite-fired power plants. This study evaluated the energy- and water-saving potential of the proposed system at both air-cooling and wet-cooling power plants firing three types of lignite separately. The results showed that the higher the moisture content of lignite, the larger the net efficiency improvement and the make-up water rate reduction. The net efficiency improvement and make-up water rate reduction in power plants firing Yimin lignite reached 2.33% points and 0.370 t/MWh, respectively, at wet-cooling power plants, and 2.18% points and 0.443 t/MWh at air-cooling power plants. This means that zero water consumption can be achieved, and water and electricity can be output at the same time at air-cooling power plants. The technical and economic analysis showed that the net present value in 10-years of power plants firing different lignite types could reach 49.31, 36.19, and 16.44 million USD depending on the predry degree. The discounted payback period was 2.34-3.67 years, which showed good economic viability in all cases. (C) 2021 American Society of Civil Engineers.
UT WOS:000730389300009
ER

PT J
AU Nöthling, J
   Gibbs, A
   Washington, L
   Gigaba, SG
   Willan, S
   Abrahams, N
   Jewkes, R
AF Nothling, J.
   Gibbs, A.
   Washington, L.
   Gigaba, S. G.
   Willan, S.
   Abrahams, N.
   Jewkes, R.
TI Change in emotional distress, anxiety, depression and PTSD from pre- to
   post-flood exposure in women residing in low-income settings in South
   Africa
DE Floods; Emotional distress; Depression; Posttraumatic stress disorder;
   Anxiety
ID CLIMATE-CHANGE; INFORMAL SETTLEMENTS; HEALTH; VULNERABILITY; DISORDER;
   TRAUMA; IMPACT
AB Floods are increasing in frequency and may increase the risk for experiencing emotional distress, anxiety, depression and PTSD. The aim of this study was to determine the extent of damage, loss, injury and death resulting from floods that occurred in and around the city of Durban, South Africa, in April 2022, and associated changes in mental health pre- to post-floods in a low-income setting. Seventy-three women between the ages of 18 and 45, residing in flood affected, low-income settings, were interviewed prior to the floods occurring. Mental health measures were repeated with 69 of the 73 women during the post-flood interview along with a questionnaire measuring flood-related exposures. Loss of infrastructure (lacked access to drinking water, electricity, fresh food, could not travel to work, had to stay in a shelter and could not get hold of friends or family) was a predictor of post-flood change in levels of emotional distress and anxiety. Higher levels of prior trauma exposure were associated with higher post-flood levels of emotional distress. Higher pre-flood food insecurity was also associated with higher post-flood anxiety. Women affected by poverty, food insecurity and a history of trauma are vulnerable to the additive adverse mental health effects of floods. Proactive approaches to diminishing the impact of floods on the livelihood of women is needed and post-flood relieve efforts may be more affective if they are enhanced by providing mental health support.
UT WOS:001181163200013
ER

PT C
AU Riker, A
   Cruz, T
   Marques, B
   Curado, M
   Simoes, P
   Monteiro, E
AF Riker, Andre
   Cruz, Tiago
   Marques, Bruno
   Curado, Marilia
   Simoes, Paulo
   Monteiro, Edmundo
GP IEEE
TI Efficient and Secure M2M Communications for Smart Metering
AB Machine-to-Machine technology supports several application scenarios, such as smart metering, automotive, health-care and city monitoring. Smart metering applications have attracted the interest of companies and governments since these applications bring many benefits (e.g. costs reduction and increased reliability) for production, monitoring and distribution of utilities, such as gas, water and electricity. Multi-hop wireless communication is a cost-effective technology for smart metering applications because it extends the wireless range and enables fast deployment. Smart metering data communicated via wireless multi-hop approaches needs mechanisms that makes the communication less vulnerable to security threats and saves the device resources. Data encryption and data aggregation mechanisms emerge as potential solutions to fulfill these requirements. However, the simultaneous execution of data encryption and data aggregation mechanisms is not a trivial task. This is because the data encryption prevents the data aggregation mechanism to summarize the data along the path. Another challenge is to manage both mechanisms according to the concurrent Machine-to-Machine (M2M) applications interests. In this context, we present sMeter, which is a framework that deals with multiple applications interests, avoiding interest conflicts of concurrent users and supporting the management of data aggregation and data encryption. sMeter is implemented using low-cost hardware in an indoor environment. The communication is performed via a wireless multi-hop technology, and the performance of this communication is evaluated in terms of delay, data reception ratio and received signal strength indication.
UT WOS:000360999100127
ER

PT J
AU Zhang, JH
   Guo, AJ
   Wang, YM
   Chang, JX
   Wang, XB
   Wang, Z
   Tian, YY
   Jing, ZQ
   Peng, ZW
AF Zhang, Junhao
   Guo, Aijun
   Wang, Yimin
   Chang, Jianxia
   Wang, Xuebin
   Wang, Zhen
   Tian, Yuyu
   Jing, Zhiqiang
   Peng, Zhiwen
TI How to achieve optimal photovoltaic plant capacity in hydro-photovoltaic
   complementary systems: Fully coupling long-term and short-term
   operational modes of cascade hydropower plants
DE Hydro-PV complementary system; Cascade hydropower plans; Optimal
   dispatch; Capacity planning; Parallel computing
AB The key to rational planning of renewable energy power plant capacity lies in the accuracy of the calculation model's simulation of the real-world system. Cascade hydropower plants are jointly managed by water and electricity departments, necessitating consideration of both long-term water distribution and short-term peak- shaving demands. However, existing renewable energy power plant capacity planning studies often oversimplify. Therefore, this study introduces a capacity planning framework that integrates both long-term and short-term operational modes for cascade hydropower plants. The Hydro-PV complementary model is established to enable simultaneous calculations for "short-term daily peak and valley complementing" and "long-term energy abundance and depletion mutual". Furthermore, a set of Hydro-Photovoltaic complementary system evaluate indicators are introduced to assess the reasonableness and reliability of PV plant capacity planning. Additionally, deep integration of multiple solving approaches accelerates the model's solution speed. Finally, the framework is applied to the KS River basin. The findings reveal: (1) PV utilization hours decrease with increased PV plant capacity in Hydro-Photovoltaic complementary. (2) Influenced by the basin's comprehensive utilization flow, the recommended PV capacity corresponding to a 5 % curtailment rate is 400 MW. (3) Extremely low or high discharge limit hydropower's peak-shaving, leading to PV curtailment.
UT WOS:001386313600001
ER

PT J
AU Li, XS
   Chen, Q
   Li, XK
AF Li, Xinshuo
   Chen, Qian
   Li, Xiaoke
TI Recent Advances in Phase-Change-Coupled Interfacial Evaporation:
   Thermal-Mass Management and Multifunctional Applications
DE solar-driven interfacial evaporation; phase change materials;
   thermal-mass management; all-weather desalination; multifunctional
   system integration
ID EFFICIENT
AB Solar-driven interfacial evaporation (SDIE) represents a highly promising technology for decentralized desalination and wastewater treatment, yet its practical industrial deployment is severely constrained by the intrinsic intermittency of natural solar irradiance and nocturnal salt crystallization. To smooth energy fluctuations and achieve all-weather, continuous freshwater output, integrating solid-liquid phase change materials (SLPCMs) into SDIE has evolved into a system-level paradigm shift driven by advanced spatiotemporal thermal-mass management. This review systematically summarizes recent breakthroughs in micro-to-macro structural engineering for phase-change-coupled SDIE systems. Spatially, advanced microscopic encapsulation strategies such as 3D matrices, core-shell architectures, and solid-solid transitions eradicate molten PCM leakage and reconstruct heat transfer networks, while macroscopic configurations involving sandwich structures and 3D directional channels realize functional zoning to maximize thermal localization. Temporally, the controlled nocturnal release of stored latent heat establishes a cross-timeline energy relay, sustaining dark evaporation and activating interfacial hydrodynamics via Marangoni convection and thermophoretic diffusion to prevent salt clogging under extreme conditions. Furthermore, cross-disciplinary integrations for water-electricity co-generation, targeted resource recovery, and environmental remediation are comprehensively discussed. Finally, critical engineering challenges regarding scalability, cost-effectiveness, and condensation system integration are addressed, offering forward-looking perspectives on coupling thermal storage with physical catalysis to transcend classical thermodynamic limits.
UT WOS:001859735900001
ER

PT J
AU Luo, QZ
   Huang, L
   Yun, PF
   Qiu, TH
   Tang, B
   Huang, KM
   Hu, XJ
   Jiang, HF
AF Luo, Qizhao
   Huang, Lu
   Yun, Panfeng
   Qiu, Tenghui
   Tang, Bin
   Huang, Kaiming
   Hu, Xuejiao
   Jiang, Haifeng
TI Thermal-driven osmosis utilizing hollow fiber membranes: Sustainable dye
   water treatment and electricity extraction
DE Low-grade heat energy; Thermo-osmotic energy conversion technology;
   Hollow fiber membrane; Desalination; Dye water treatment; Electricity
   generation
ID DISTILLATION
AB Excessive discharges of chemical dyes have led to severe contamination of seawater, resulting in significant ecological damage. Thermo-osmotic energy conversion technology, which purifies wastewater and generates electricity under temperature gradients, has garnered considerable interest from researchers. However, the operational efficiency of thermo-osmotic energy conversion is inherently limited by the effective membrane area, and conventional systems typically employ flat membranes as separators, resulting in suboptimal performance for the same floorage. In this study, we introduce a novel system that combines thermo-osmotic energy conversion technology with hollow fiber membranes that possess a high effective membrane area, thereby achieving optimized performance. Driven by the temperature gradient, the water in the dye solution condenses outside the membrane and converted from vapor to liquid. The continuous accumulation of condensed water generates pressure and drives a water turbine for sustainable power generation. Our results demonstrate that at temperature gradient of 40 degrees C, the system can achieve the power output of 16.75 Wm(-3) and the freshwater production rate of 70.29 kg m(-3) h(-1) under ideal conditions. This study presents a novel water-electricity co-production system based on low-grade waste heat recovery for dye solution treatment, which extends the applicability of thermo-osmotic energy conversion technology and improves its practicality.
UT WOS:001199824000001
ER

PT J
AU Ding, Q
   Alotaibi, MA
   Lui, C
AF Ding, Qi
   Alotaibi, Majed A.
   Lui, Chuang
TI Sustainable process modeling and holistic 4E assessment of an innovative
   CHP plant with renewable hydrogen production based on multi-heat
   recovery and PEM electrolyzer
DE Gas turbine; Exergy analyses; Cost of exergy unit; Thermoeconomic
   analyses; Cleaner production; Organic Rankine cycle
ID EXERGOECONOMIC EVALUATION; ELECTRICITY-GENERATION; BIOMASS GASIFICATION;
   INTEGRATED-SYSTEM; GEOTHERMAL-ENERGY; POWER-SYSTEM; GAS-TURBINE;
   FRESH-WATER; WASTE HEAT; EXERGY
AB This article presents an integrated system that combines heat and power output by recovering waste heat from a gas turbine. Additionally, it includes a proton exchange membrane electrolyzer that generates pure hydrogen. The heat recovery encompasses the integration of an organic Rankine cycle for the generation of hot water, the optimization of the organic Rankine cycle segment through the incorporation of a Kalina cycle, and the transformation of the waste heat from the Kalina cycle into electric power within the organic Rankine cycle by employing R-141b as the working fluid. Additionally, the excess hot water and electricity produced have been converted into hydrogen. This novel procedure involves the utilization of two organic Rankine cycle systems employing distinct working fluids. The primary aim is to employ octane as the working fluid to generate electricity and facilitate enhanced energy integration. The system underwent thorough examination and assessment, considering energy, exergy, economic, and environmental variables. Additionally, a sensitivity analyses of the operational parameters was performed. In addition, the thermodynamic performance of the process has been analyzed in three different scenarios: single generation, combined heat and power, and combined heat, power, and hydrogen. The findings revealed that the process attains an energy efficiency of 64.99 %, an exergy efficiency of 57.47 %, and an electrical efficiency of 41.93 %. The environmental assessment concluded that the proposed approach can decrease targeted CO2 emissions by 39.83 % in comparison to the situation when a single product is produced. Furthermore, this reduction is much greater (50.17 %) when compared to a similar structure that relies on biomass fuel. Economically, the total plant cost rate has been computed at 2867 $/h, with the exergy unit cost for this innovative process amounting to 29.63 $/GJ. The sensitivity study reveals that raising the inlet air temperature to the burner to a maximum of 870 degrees C leads to a notable improvement in energy efficiency, reaching 72.4 %, and exergy efficiency, reaching 62 %. This new system, with its advanced thermal integration and multi-heat recovery, presents a highly efficient and environmentally friendly solution for energy and hydrogen production.
UT WOS:001416280000001
ER

PT J
AU Khorchani, M
   Gaspar, L
   Nadal-Romero, E
   Arnaez, J
   Lasanta, T
   Navas, A
AF Khorchani, Makki
   Gaspar, Leticia
   Nadal-Romero, Estela
   Arnaez, Jose
   Lasanta, Teodoro
   Navas, Ana
TI Effects of cropland abandonment and afforestation on soil redistribution
   in a small Mediterranean mountain catchment
DE Land use and land cover changes; Caesium 137; Erosion and deposition
   rates; Afforestation; Mediterranean mountain areas
ID LAND-USE; ORGANIC-MATTER; SEDIMENT CONNECTIVITY; EROSION RATES; CS-137;
   RUNOFF; CARBON; AREA; RESTORATION; MANAGEMENT
AB In slopes of Mediterranean mid-mountain areas, land use and land cover changes linked to the aban-donment of cropland activity affect soil quality and degradation and soil redistribution; however, limited attention has been paid to this issue at catchment scale. This paper evaluates the effects of cropland abandonment and post-land abandonment management (through natural revegetation and afforesta-tion) on soil redistribution rates using fallout Cs-137 measurements in the Araguas catchment (0.45 km(2), Central Spanish Pyrenees). A total of 52 soil core samples, distributed in a regular grid, from the first 30-40 cm and 9 sectioned reference samples were collected across the catchment and soil properties were analysed. Fallout Cs-137 was measured in a 5 cm sectioned references samples and in bulk grid samples. Cs-137 inventories were used to estimate soil erosion and deposition rates across the catchment. Results show that the highest erosion rates were recorded under sparsely vegetated sites in the badland area, while the lowest rates were found in the afforested area, but no significant differences were observed between the different uses and covers in soil redistribution rates likely due to a long history of human intervention through cultivation in steep slopes and afforestation practices. However, the recovery of the soil organic matter in afforested areas suggest that afforestation can reduce soil degradation at long-term scale. The information gained achieve a better understanding of soil redistribution dynamics and provide knowledge for effective land management after cropland abandonment of agroecosystems in Mediter-ranean mountain areas. (c) 2022 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY -NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
UT WOS:000972740700001
ER

PT J
AU Wang, LJ
   Zhou, JW
   Liu, FL
   Zhou, JR
   Zhang, YJ
   Huang, JY
   Hou, MY
   Wang, K
AF Wang, Longjun
   Zhou, Jingwen
   Liu, Feilong
   Zhou, Jingru
   Zhang, Yingjie
   Huang, Jiayin
   Hou, Mingyu
   Wang, Kai
TI Photothermal conversion-passive cooling interface achieves efficient
   evaporation and sustainable thermoelectric power generation
DE Interface evaporation; Thermoelectric power generation; Passive cooling;
   Solar thermal conversion; Sustainable development
ID ELECTRICITY
AB Solar-driven freshwater production coupled with low-grade heat recovery for electricity generation offers a potential solution to simultaneous shortages of freshwater and power shortages. However, achieving highly efficient and sustainable solar-powered water-electricity cogeneration in complex offshore environments remains challenging. This study developed a bidirectional interfacial evaporation and passive thermoelectric generation (PIEG) strategy, forming the basis of a sustainable cogeneration system. The system comprises a photothermal conversion evaporation layer (MoSS/SA) fabricated from high-purity 1T-phase MoSS, thermoelectric module (TEG) and passive evaporative cooling interface (MF/SA). The passive cooling interface within the system effectively converts and utilizes the waste heat and latent heat generated during the interface evaporation process, thereby expanding the scope of solar thermal energy utilization. Consequently, the PIEG-based waterelectricity cogeneration device requires no external cooling energy input. Under one sun irradiance, exhibits an output voltage of 137.2 mV and an exceptional water evaporation rate of 2.82 kg m- 2 h- 1, these values represent enhancements of 172.2 % and 29.5 %, respectively, compared to devices lacking passive interfacial cooling (PIC). Experimental demonstrations confirmed the feasibility of the PIEG strategy for seawater desalination, powering electronic devices and irrigation applications. This work presents a highly promising zero-carbon strategy for achieving self-sufficiency in freshwater, energy, and food resources in remote offshore settings.
UT WOS:001620353000001
ER

PT C
AU Yang, YS
   Li, ZM
   Zhang, GX
   Costa, A
   Lo, EY
AF Yang, Yesen
   Li, Zhengmao
   Zhang, Guangxiao
   Costa, Alberto
   Lo, Edmond Y.
GP IEEE
TI Enhancing Resilience of Reconfigurable Power-Water Systems with Mobile
   Distributed Generators and High-Proportional Renewables
DE Resilience; power-water system; reconfiguration; high-proportional
   renewables; mobile distributed generators
AB The intertwined interdependencies existing in power-water systems (PWS) increase the risk of cascading failures during post-interruption scenarios and affect the overall resiliency. Towards a more resilient operation of damaged PWS, this paper presents a resilience enhancement methodology to improve serviceability with mobile distributed generators (MDGs) and high-proportional renewables (HPR). First, the PWS is comprehensively modeled with component mechanisms and flow constraints. The interdependencies, including the power needs for water components, are modeled at component level. Second, various resources, such as extensively installed solar HPR units and MDGs, are coordinated to supply damaged PWS and reduce unsupplied loads. Reconfigurability of power distribution networks is incorporated in the proposed method. It is to adjust PDN topology by coordinating the behavior of switches and leverage HPR and MDG for optimally allocating energy. Third, the model and enhancement measures are formulated into mixed-inter linear programming to facilitate efficient solving. The developed method is applied to a benchmark PWS with 33 power buses and 25 water nodes. The simulation results demonstrate the effectiveness of our method.
UT WOS:001315932500323
ER

PT J
AU Harrell, M
   Selvaraj, SA
   Edgar, M
AF Harrell, Mason
   Selvaraj, Saranya A.
   Edgar, Mia
TI DANGER! Crisis Health Workers at Risk
DE healthcare worker; health worker; occupational medicine; crisis;
   pandemic; epidemic; disaster; war; refugees; displaced persons
ID POSTTRAUMATIC-STRESS-DISORDER; INCREASED CARDIOVASCULAR RISK; EAST JAPAN
   EARTHQUAKE; CARE WORKERS; DISASTER; PREVENTION; EMERGENCY; OUTBREAK;
   RECOVERY; IMPACT
AB The occupational hazards of health workers (HWs) in standard work environments have been well defined in both the developed and developing world during routine working conditions. Less defined are the hazards to HWs during pandemics, epidemics, natural disasters, wars, conflicts, and other crises. How do crises affect the infrastructure of medical systems? What are the distinct needs of the patient population during crises? What are the peculiarities of the Crisis Health Worker (CHW)? What are the known CHWs' occupational risks? What are the protective factors? By means of a PubMed search, we synthesized the most relevant publications to try to answer these questions. Failures of healthcare infrastructure and institutions include CHW shortages, insufficient medical supplies, medications, transportation, poorly paid health workers, security concerns, and the absence of firm guidance in health policy. Healthcare needs affecting the patient population and CHWs include crisis-induced injury and illness, hazardous exposures, communicable diseases, mental healthcare, and continuity of care for pre-crisis medical conditions. CHWs' occupational hazards include supply deficiencies, infectious disease transmission, long working hours, staff shortages, financial reimbursements, mental fatigue, physical exhaustion, and inconsistent access to clean water, electricity, and Internet. CHWs suffer from injuries and illnesses that range from immediate, debilitating injuries to chronic, unforeseen effects like mental fatigue, physical exhaustion, anxiety, burnout, and even post-traumatic stress syndrome (PTSD). Protective factors include personal traits such as adaptability and resilience as well as skills learned through structured education and training. Success will be achieved by constructively collaborating with local authorities, local health workers, national military, foreign military, and aid organizations.
UT WOS:000559513000001
ER

PT J
AU Assareh, E
   Izadyar, N
   Tandis, E
   Khiadani, M
   Shahavand, A
   Agarwal, N
   Gerami, A
   Rezk, A
   Kim, M
   Kord, R
   Pirhoushyaran, T
   Hosseinzadeh, M
   Mobayen, S
AF Assareh, Ehsanolah
   Izadyar, Nima
   Tandis, Emad
   Khiadani, Mehdi
   Shahavand, Amir
   Agarwal, Neha
   Gerami, Arian
   Rezk, Ahmed
   Kim, Minkyu
   Kord, Reza
   Pirhoushyaran, Tahereh
   Hosseinzadeh, Mehdi
   Mobayen, Saleh
TI Thermoeconomic optimization of climate-adaptive solar and wind
   multi-generation systems using artificial intelligence and thermal
   energy recovery
DE Adaptive boosting; Artificial intelligence; Multi-generation system;
   Particle Swarm Optimization; Steam Rankine Cycle; Thermoeconomic
   optimization
ID HYDROGEN; EXERGY; WATER; COST
AB This study presents a hybrid multi-generation energy system designed to overcome solar intermittency while meeting the global demand for integrated delivery of electricity, water, cooling, and sustainable fuels in the transition to decarbonization. The engineering application integrates solar thermal and wind energy with a modified Brayton cycle, a Steam Rankine Cycle (SRC), and a Thermoelectric Generator (TEG) to simultaneously produce electricity, fresh water via Reverse Osmosis (RO), hydrogen and oxygen via Proton Exchange Membrane Electrolyzer (PEME), and cooling (via absorption chiller) within a unified optimization framework. The system was modeled using Engineering Equation Solver (EES) and optimized via Response Surface Methodology (RSM) based on 11 decision variables. To address the complexity of optimization, a second phase applied Artificial Intelligence (AI) techniques: Adaptive Boosting (AdaBoost) for predictive modelling and Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) for global optimization. Under optimal conditions, the Response Surface Methodology yielded an exergy efficiency of 45.8 % with a cost rate of 576.76 United States Dollars per hour (USD/h), while AI reduced costs to 211.2 USD/h with a moderate efficiency trade-off. Simulation of the optimized configuration across eight diverse climates identified Quebec as most viable, generating 22,629.6 Megawatt-hours per year (MWh/year) of electricity and avoiding 4616.4 tons of Carbon Dioxide (CO2) emissions annually. Integration of wind energy stabilizes solar variability, enhancing performance. AI contributes to optimizing complex interactions, nonlinear constraints, and multiple conflicting objectives. The methodology offers a scalable, generalizable framework for designing intelligent, climate-resilient infrastructures. Future research includes AI-enabled real-time control, experimental validation, and broader deployment strategies.
UT WOS:001587617300001
ER

PT J
AU Switzer, FS III
   Ligato, J
   Piratla, K
AF Switzer, Fred S., III
   Ligato, Joseph
   Piratla, Kalyan
TI Interdependent Infrastructures as a Multiteam System: Enhancing
   Resilience
ID TEAMS; PERFORMANCE; TEAMWORK; KNOWLEDGE
AB Infrastructure systems such as water, electricity, gas, and so on are interdependent complex sociotechnical systems. As such, understanding the human or social component of these systems is critical for increasing resilience. Qualitative analyses, including cognitive task analyses conducted with utility systems personnel, suggested that the human or social part of these systems can be modeled as a multiteam system (MTS). The interdependent critical infrastructure systems (ICIs) that we examined were found to have all of the essential features of multiteam systems. Using the National Academy of Sciences resilience framework (plan, absorb, recover, adapt), we applied findings from the MTS literature to generate recommendations, cautions, and suggestions for future research in infrastructure systems design and practice. (C) 2022 American Society of Civil Engineers.
UT WOS:000867888700014
ER

PT J
AU Shahid, S
   Wang, XJ
   Bin Harun, S
   Shamsudin, S
   Ismail, T
   Minhans, A
AF Shahid, Shamsuddin
   Wang, Xiao-Jun
   Bin Harun, Sobri
   Shamsudin, Supiah Binti
   Ismail, Tarmizi
   Minhans, Anil
TI Climate variability and changes in the major cities of Bangladesh:
   observations, possible impacts and adaptation
DE Climate variability; Climate change; Extreme events; Urban population;
   Bangladesh
ID SUMMER MONSOON; RAINFALL VARIABILITY; TRENDS; FLOODS; PRECIPITATION;
   EXTREMES; DROUGHTS; MAXIMUM; MODEL; DHAKA
AB High population density, inadequate infrastructure and low adaptive capacity have made the urban population of Bangladesh highly vulnerable to climate change. Trends in climate and climate-related extreme events in five major cities have been analyzed in this paper to decipher the variability and ongoing changes in urban Bangladesh. An analysis of 55 years (1958-2012) of daily rainfall and temperature data using nonparametric statistical methods shows a significant increase in annual and seasonal mean daily maximum and minimum temperatures in all five cities. A significant increase in climate-related extreme events, such as heavy rainfall events (> 20 mm), hot days (> 32 A degrees C) and hot nights (> 25 A degrees C), is also observed. Climate model results suggest that these trends will continue through the twenty-first century. Vulnerability of urban livelihoods and physical structures to climate change is estimated by considering certainty and timing of impacts. It has been predicted that public health and urban infrastructures, viz. water and power supply, would be the imminent affected sectors in the urban areas of Bangladesh. Adaptation measures that can be adopted to mitigate the negative impacts of climate change are also discussed.
UT WOS:000369005400015
ER

PT J
AU Thomas, S
   Sahoo, SS
   Ajithkumar, G
   Thomas, S
   Rout, A
   Mahapatra, SK
AF Thomas, Sanju
   Sahoo, Sudhansu S.
   Ajithkumar, G.
   Thomas, Sheffy
   Rout, Auroshis
   Mahapatra, Swarup K.
TI Socio-economic and environmental analysis on solar thermal energy-based
   polygeneration system for rural livelihoods applications on an Island
   through interventions in the energy-water-food nexus
DE Solar thermal energy; Polygeneration system; Energy -water -food nexus;
   LCOE; Social cost; Carbon cost
ID POWER; OPTIMIZATION; DESIGN
AB Rural electrification is constrained by grid extension infrastructural cost, isolated low rural populations, lack of anchor loads, and repayment potential of villagers while decentralized renewable energy power is constrained by high capital cost, low reliability, and non-workable business models. Solar thermal energy can produce elec-tricity, heating, cooling, water, and fuel and has the potential for storage for livelihood applications. Hence solar thermal energy-based cogeneration and polygeneration systems have the potential for intervention in rural livelihoods with a focus on the energy-land-water-food nexus. However, standalone solar thermal systems are capital intensive and shadowed by photovoltaics. In the current work, an island in the Indian Ocean is considered for the study, and a solar thermal energy-based hybrid polygeneration system is designed with end products such as electricity, heating, cooling for food storage, and desalinating to get pure water. The turbine, VAM, pasteurization unit, and membrane distillation unit are the considered components in the present analysis. The thermodynamic properties of the key components of the polygeneration system are identified and the energy and entropy balance of the system is done. The levelised cost of production of polygeneration outputs for 25-year operational life with an accelerated depreciation of 30% of the capital cost, over 8 years is carried out. It is found that the electricity and water pricing are INR 14.71 and INR 14.01 per unit which are not attractive. Normalization is done by adjusting the price of other polygeneration outputs namely refrigeration, hot water, and pasteurizing to make the electricity and water pricing feasible to achieve an IRR of 12.99% and payback of 9 years at a 5% annual escalation. The social cost saved with the benefit of polygeneration outputs is cumulated considering value addition in the supply chain to save agricultural produce and milk, which otherwise would have spoiled. The annual carbon emissions that are curtailed with solar thermal polygeneration outputs are cumulated and found to be 434 tonnes of carbon. The social cost and environmental cost due to carbon are considered as an incentive in the cost economic economics of polygeneration system and it is found that the IRR and payback can be improved to 17.98% and 6.2 years respectively. The work recommends policy interventions to promote decentralized solar thermal polygeneration systems for impact on rural livelihoods with a focus on the energy-water-food nexus.
UT WOS:000870464000009
ER

PT J
AU Rao, NS
   Lala, J
   Miara, A
   Cohen, S
   Bokhari, HH
   Jackson, ND
   Corsi, F
AF Rao, Nalini S.
   Lala, Jonathan
   Miara, Ariel
   Cohen, Stuart
   Bokhari, Hussain H.
   Jackson, Nicole D.
   Corsi, Fabio
TI Measuring Climateand Water Risk across the Bulk PowerSystem
DE streamflow; temperature; capacity; risk; derating; decision-making
   methodology
ID CHANGE IMPACTS; VULNERABILITY; ADAPTATION; SECURITY; NEXUS
AB As climate impacts increase and power systems transition to renewables, planners and operators need insights into climate risks to power generation and infrastructure to ensure reliable decision-making in the short and long-term. We present a standardized, consistent mechanism for utilities and system operators to evaluate the climate- and water-related risks of their current and future grid assets. Using a risk-based approach on the combined outcomes of high-fidelity climate drivers together with water and power system models, we examine the temperature and water availability impacts within the contiguous United States to power system assets at the water basin level in three different time periods and report resulting outcomes on lost capacity across different expansion scenarios and climate models. The results indicate that air temperature has the highest effect on derating. Changes in streamflow do not have a large impact on generation capacity at the national level. Electric sector buildout scenarios each have a unique regional risk profile, depending on the technology mix and total capacity, although risks from high temperatures are significant for both traditional and renewable energy generation. Stakeholders can use this approach to monitor effects of generation capacity losses and potential impacts as climate, generation mix, and infrastructure change.
UT WOS:001856147400001
ER

PT J
AU Saboori, H
   Mehrjerdi, H
AF Saboori, Hedayat
   Mehrjerdi, Hasan
TI Techno-economic-environmental modeling, joint optimization, and
   sensitivity analysis of a combined water desalination-hybrid renewable
   supply system
DE battery energy storage; carbon reduction; hybrid wind-PV; sustainable
   water desalination; system sizing; water tank
ID ENERGY-STORAGE; WIND; DESIGN; STATE; SUSTAINABILITY; SCARCITY; COST;
   ART; PV
AB Employing renewable resources, which act as an alternative energy source for desalination plants, has become one of the promising solutions for overcoming the water crisis. The various experimental, pilot, and research desalination projects powered by renewable resources have validated its practical feasibility in the past decade. An optimal planning scheme must be adopted to enhance these new resources' competitiveness in terms of cleanness, reliability, and affordability. Accordingly, this paper proposes a potable water production system based on water desalination. The desalination unit is supplied by a synergistic wind-PV system integrated with an electrical energy storage system and a water tank. Also, a diesel generator is considered for power production during periods of critical power production and power/water storage. The resultant air pollution is modeled and controlled to ensure the system's cleanliness. The size of the desalination unit, water tank, associated pumps, and power supply components are optimized simultaneously to ensure a minimum-cost plan. The proposed model exhibits linearity while preserving a predefined level of water supply reliability and a yearly emission cap. The model is implemented on a test case, and a comprehensive sensitivity analysis is performed to evaluate its effectiveness to obtain optimal results.
UT WOS:000789224400001
ER

PT J
AU Li, GN
   Shi, XL
   Lv, HK
   Tang, HY
   Wang, Y
   Guo, WW
   Liu, SJ
   Zhao, D
   Chen, ZG
AF Li, Guo-neng
   Shi, Xiao-Lei
   Lv, Hong-kun
   Tang, Hong-yi
   Wang, Ya
   Guo, Wen-wen
   Liu, Shao-jun
   Zhao, Dan
   Chen, Zhi-Gang
TI Hydrogen-driven thermoelectric trigeneration for sustainable homes:
   electricity, water, and heat
ID EFFICIENCY
AB Hydrogen is widely regarded as a pivotal energy carrier for deep decarbonization, yet its residential deployment remains limited by the absence of integrated systems capable of fully exploiting its high-grade thermal output. In particular, the simultaneous and efficient generation of electricity, freshwater, and usable heat from hydrogen has remained an unmet challenge. Here, we report a hydrogen-powered thermoelectric trigeneration system that establishes a new paradigm for residential hydrogen utilization by concurrently delivering electrical power, freshwater production, and high-quality thermal energy within a single, compact platform. Distinct from conventional hydrogen energy systems that rely on electrochemical conversion or single-function heat recovery, this work introduces an integrated polygeneration strategy that synergistically couples pure hydrogen combustion, thermoelectric power generation, and water harvesting. A key innovation lies in the incorporation of impinging jet-enhanced heat transfer, which enables uniform temperature distribution and sustained thermal gradients across thermoelectric modules under hydrogen combustion conditions, overcoming a long-standing bottleneck in hydrogen-fueled thermoelectric systems. As a result, the system delivers a record electrical power output of 61.8 W with an overall thermoelectric efficiency of 3.10%, representing the highest performance reported to date for hydrogen-powered thermoelectric generation. Simultaneously, it harvests freshwater at a rate of 0.258 kg h-1 with a unit performance coefficient of 37.6 kg kWh-1, achieving the highest reported value while recovering 52.02% of the water vapor contained in the flue gas. In addition, the system provides high-grade heating with a thermal output of 1.56 kW, yielding an unprecedented combined heat-and-power efficiency of 94.6%. By integrating hydrogen combustion with thermoelectric energy conversion and efficient water recovery, this work sets new benchmarks for hydrogen-based polygeneration and offers a scalable and sustainable strategy for next-generation residential energy systems.
UT WOS:001776918400001
ER

PT J
AU Ata, A
   Çankaya, S
   Dede, S
   Pekey, B
AF Ata, Abdullah
   Cankaya, Simge
   Dede, Sahan
   Pekey, Beyhan
TI Environmental Life Cycle Assessment of Industrial Hazardous Waste
   Incineration: The Case of Kocaeli, Türkiye
DE Bottom ash reuse; Carbon capture and utilization; Hazardous waste
   incineration; Life cycle assessment
ID CARBON CAPTURE
AB This study evaluates the environmental performance of a hazardous waste incinerator with integrated electricity generation using a life cycle assessment (LCA) approach. The aim is to quantify the environmental impacts of hazardous waste incineration with energy recovery and to assess improvement options based on circular economy principles. Three systems were examined: the current situation (CS), a scenario including the beneficial reuse of incineration bottom ash (S1), and a carbon capture and utilization scenario involving CO2-based methanol production (S2). The assessment followed a consequential LCA framework with system expansion to address multifunctionality by crediting avoided environmental impacts. The system boundary was defined as gate-to-grave, covering operational inputs, emissions to air and water, electricity generation, and final disposal of residues. Electricity produced from the Waste-to-Energy (WtE) plant was credited through substitution of the average Turkish electricity mix. The functional unit was set as 1 ton of waste entering the facility. Foreground data were obtained from a large-scale operating hazardous waste incinerator, while background processes were modelled using the Ecoinvent 3.7 database within SimaPro 9.2 Results show that electricity consumption is the major contributor to environmental burdens in the CS, with a climate change impact of 921 kg CO2-eq per ton of waste. This impact decreased to 856 kg CO2-eq/ton in S1 and to 51 kg CO2-eq/ton in S2. Although S2 achieved the lowest impacts in most categories due to CO2 capture and conversion, it exhibited higher particulate matter formation and freshwater ecotoxicity linked to steam use. S1 performed best in freshwater ecotoxicity through bottom ash reuse and metal recovery. Overall, the findings demonstrate that circular economy strategies and CO2 capture technologies can significantly enhance the environmental sustainability of hazardous waste management.
UT WOS:001672168600002
ER

PT J
AU Zhu, HC
   Xiao, LS
   Kuang, M
   Wang, JT
   Zhang, HC
AF Zhu, Huichao
   Xiao, Liusheng
   Kuang, Min
   Wang, Jiatang
   Zhang, Houcheng
TI Innovative use of air gap membrane distillation to harvest waste heat
   from alkaline fuel cell for efficient freshwater production: A
   comprehensive 4E study
DE Alkaline fuel cell; Waste heat recovery; Air gap membrane distillation;
   Seawater desalination; Economic study; Multi-objective optimization
ID THERMODYNAMIC ANALYSIS; PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS; HYBRID SYSTEM;
   OPTIMIZATION; TRANSPORT; REMOVAL
AB Poor power density of alkaline fuel cell (AFC) resulting from inherent waste heat generation significantly hinders its widespread application. Herein, an innovative hybrid system that combines AFC and air gap membrane distillation is proposed, aiming to enhance the power density via utilizing the waste heat for freshwater generation. Based on the laws of thermodynamics and electrochemical theory, the hybrid system model is formulated to derive performance metrics by quantifying various irreversible losses. The thermodynamic performance, competitiveness, economic viability, and environmental impact of the system are comprehensively discussed through energetic, exergetic, economic, environmental (4E) analyses. Calculations predict that the maximum equivalent output power density permits 63.28% higher than that of the standalone AFC at 353 K. The influencing mechanisms of the AFC operation conditions, air gap thickness, and properties of the porous hydrophobic membrane are clarified to discern potential avenues for further performance improvement. Furthermore, a multiobjective local sensitivity analysis indicates that membrane porosity and coolant solution temperature are the most sensitive factors. The levelized costs study reveals that water and electricity costs over the total lifecycle are 56.89 $ m- 3 and 0.1012 $ kWh- 1, respectively. The multi-objective optimization further provides a highperformance and cost-effective design solution for the hybrid system.
UT WOS:001215956800001
ER

PT J
AU de Almeida, NM
   Crespo, A
AF de Almeida, Nuno Marques
   Crespo, Adolfo
TI Sustainability and Resilience of Engineering Assets
DE engineering asset management; sustainable development; resilience; life
   cycle management; decision making; critical infrastructures; industrial
   facilities; buildings and built environment; digital transformation;
   regulations and policy; innovation; emerging risks; disaster risk
   reduction; management systems
AB The frequency and severity of natural or human-induced disaster events, such as floods, earthquakes, hurricanes, fires, pandemics, hazardous material spills, groundwater contamination, structural failures, explosions, etc., as well as their impacts, have greatly increased in recent decades due to population growth and extensive urbanization, among other factors. The World Bank estimates that the total cost of cities' and communities' vulnerability to these types of disasters could reach more than USD 300 billion per year by 2030. However, it has been argued that investment to improve the quality and resilience of engineered physical assets that are the backbone of modern societies, such as critical infrastructure, industrial facilities, and buildings, could significantly contribute to more sustainable and prosperous societies. Engineered assets are key to the delivery of essential services, such as transport, food, water, electricity supply, health and safety, etc. Some of these physical assets are integrated into asset systems and national or regional networks, with life cycles of several decades or even centuries. It is, therefore, of great importance that strategies and life cycle decisions, such as those related to short- and long-term capital investment planning, maintenance strategies, operational plans, and asset disposal, lead to the maximization of the value derived from these assets. Moreover, it is essential that the achievement of these goals is sustainable over time. Organizations dealing with engineering assets, both public and private, must, therefore, integrate sustainability and resilience concerns into everyday operations, using budgets that are often restricted, while also meeting demanding performance requirements in risky and uncertain environments. This Special Issue collates a selection of papers reporting the latest research and case studies regarding the trends and emerging strategies used to address these challenges, with contributions discussing how asset management principles and techniques can help to push the boundaries of sophistication and innovation to improve the life cycle management of engineered assets to ensure more sustainable and resilient cities and societies.
UT WOS:001139525500001
ER

PT J
AU Ali, U
   Tariq, S
   Kim, S
   Safder, U
   Yoo, C
AF Ali, Usama
   Tariq, Shahzeb
   Kim, Sangyoun
   Safder, Usman
   Yoo, Changkyoo
TI Techno-economic assessment of a demand-responsive RO-PRO superstructure
   for sustainable saline wastewater treatment
DE Reverse osmosis; Hybrid RO-PRO system; Demand-side management; Specific
   energy consumption; Sustainable planning
ID PRESSURE-RETARDED OSMOSIS; REVERSE-OSMOSIS; DESALINATION; SYSTEM;
   OPTIMIZATION; RECOVERY; SEAWATER; FO
AB As global water scarcity and rising energy demands intensify, hybrid Reverse Osmosis Pressure Retarded Osmosis (RO-PRO) systems offer a promising solution for efficient water and power recovery. However, under fluctuating demand, membrane allocation can lead to higher specific energy consumption (SEC), reduced operational efficiency, raising concerns for long-term sustainability. To address these challenges, this study proposes a superstructure-based RO-PRO (S-RO-PRO) framework designed to maximize freshwater production and energy generation. The proposed methodology combines system-level, multi-stage RO and PRO unit configurations with demand-side management (DSM) strategies designed for building communities. The results showed that across different demand scenarios, the S-RO-PRO outperforms the conventional RO-PRO, achieving a 10-25 % reduction in SEC. Moreover, it sustains stable power densities of 2-5 W/m2 compared to 0-1 W/m2 in the conventional system, achieves energy cost reductions of 40.30-51.11 %, and maintains up to 55 % higher net present value under high-demand conditions, underscoring its strong cost-saving potential. Overall, the DSM-adapted S-ROPRO can make a significant contribution to the development of efficient water-energy systems while supporting circular economy principles and long-term sustainability.
UT WOS:001655657200001
ER

PT J
AU Araníbar, N
   Ott, KH
   Roongta, V
   Mueller, L
AF Aranibar, Nelly
   Ott, Karl-Heinz
   Roongta, Vikram
   Mueller, Luciano
TI Metabolomic analysis using optimized NMR and statistical methods
DE water suppression; adiabatic pulse; NMR; biofluids; metabolic profiling;
   metabolomics; metabonomics; multivariate statistical analysis; ANOVA
ID SOLVENT-SUPPRESSION; PATTERN-RECOGNITION; EXCITATION
AB NMR-based metabolomics requires robust automated methodologies, and the accuracy of NMR-based metabolomics data is greatly influenced by the reproducibility of data acquisition and processing methods. Effective water resonance signal suppression and reproducible spectral phasing and baseline traces across series of related samples are crucial for statistical analysis. We assess robustness, repeatability, sensitivity, selectivity, and practicality of commonly used solvent peak suppression methods in the NMR analysis of biofluids with respect to the automated processing of the NMR spectra and the impact of pulse sequence and data processing methods on the sensitivity of pattern recognition and statistical analysis of the metabolite profiles. We introduce two modifications to the excitation sculpting pulse sequence whereby the excitation solvent suppression pulse cascade is preceded by low-power water resonance presaturation pulses during the relaxation delay. Our analysis indicates that combining water presaturation with excitation sculpting water suppression delivers the most reproducible and information-rich NMR spectra of biofluids. (c) 2006 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000239327000007
ER

PT J
AU Karanikola, V
   Boo, C
   Rolf, J
   Elimelech, M
AF Karanikola, Vasiliki
   Boo, Chanhee
   Rolf, Julianne
   Elimelech, Menachem
TI Engineered Slippery Surface to Mitigate Gypsum Scaling in Membrane
   Distillation for Treatment of Hypersaline Industrial Wastewaters
ID GAS PRODUCED WATER; REVERSE-OSMOSIS; POLY(VINYLIDENE FLUORIDE);
   HETEROGENEOUS NUCLEATION; GERM-FORMATION; DESALINATION; FABRICATION;
   ENERGY; PVDF; NANOFILTRATION
AB Membrane distillation (MD) is an emerging thermal desalination process, which can potentially treat high salinity industrial wastewaters, such as shale gas produced water and power plant blowdown. The performance of MD systems is hampered by inorganic scaling, particularly when treating hypersaline industrial wastewaters with high-scaling potential. In this study, we developed a scaling-resistant MD membrane with an engineered "slippery" surface for desalination of high-salinity industrial wastewaters at high water recovery. A polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF) membrane was grafted with silica nanoparticles, followed by coating with fluoroalkylsilane to lower the membrane surface energy. Contact angle measurements revealed the "slippery" nature of the modified PVDF membrane. We evaluated the desalination performance of the surface-engineered PVDF membrane in direct contact membrane distillation using a synthetic wastewater with high gypsum scaling potential as well as a brine from a power plant blowdown. Results show that gypsum scaling is substantially delayed on the developed slippery surface. Compared to the pristine PVDF membrane, the modified PVDF membranes exhibited a stable MD performance with reduced scaling potential, demonstrating its potential to achieve high water recovery in treatment of high-salinity industrial wastewaters. We conclude with a discussion of the mechanism for gypsum scaling inhibition by the engineered slippery surface.
UT WOS:000454183400036
ER

PT J
AU Thirumeni, C
AF Thirumeni, C
TI Rehabilitation and uprating of Ras Abu Fontas MSF desalination units:
   process optimisation and life extension
DE uprating; rehabilitation; efficiency; demisters; vacuum system
AB The existing power and desalination capacity installed in the Middle East represent a huge asset which yearly requires considerable investment. In particular desalination plants reliability is essential as the entire economy depend on water produced by desalination plants and the interval allowed for shut down and rehabilitation works is limited to few weeks per year. Several desalination plants constructed in the 70s are still successfully in operation and their life can be further extended for other 10 years or more. The real problem is that the design methods adopted at the construction times of these plants became obsolete and do not comply with modern criteria of water and power production. Upgrading and up-rating of existing brown fields will therefore more and more play a key role in the framework of an intelligent rehabilitation work ensuring comparatively fast investment recovery times and immediate benefits in plant output and management. In June 2004 Deutsche Babcock was awarded a contract for the rehabilitation of Ras Abu Fontas units 3,4,5,6 in Qatar. The rehabilitation project is aiming at further extending the service life of the 5 MIGD MSF units, which were installed between 1975 and 1978 by Weir Westgarth. Ras Abu Fontas units 3,4,5,6 have like several existing MSF desalination plants installed in the same period present an available heat transfer surface which could be theoretically used to increase the distillate water capacity of the plant. Taking advantage of this feature, Deutsche Babcock proposed, along with the rehabilitation work, a 3% augmentation of distillate production by partial redesign of evaporator auxiliary systems. This project followed the same philosophy adopted for the up-rating carried out along with the rehabilitation of SEWA Layyah unit 4-5 [1] The present paper aims to describe the design approach to this achievement.
UT WOS:000233488400007
ER

PT J
AU Venizelou, V
   Poullikkas, A
AF Venizelou, Venizelos
   Poullikkas, Andreas
TI Energy-water-transport nexus modeling for energy transition: A system
   dynamics approach
DE Energy-water-transport nexus; Hydrogen economy; Energy transition;
   Energy modeling; Energy policy
ID STORAGE; CYPRUS
AB Achieving deep decarbonization while safeguarding water and transport is a global priority. Hydrogen (H-2 ) can store variable renewables, decarbonize hard-to-electrify sectors, and couple energy-water systems. This study presents a fully integrated system-dynamics and multi-objective optimization framework that links multi-period capacity planning with cross-sector feedbacks among electricity, water desalination, transport and H-2 synthesis. Applied to Cyprus as a test case, the model compares a renewables-only pathway with a renewables + small modular reactors (SMRs) scenario. Both pathways attain net-zero direct CO2 by mid-century, but the mixed system overcomes the PV ceiling by adding SMRs capacity from 2035, boosting annual electricity output from 14.7 TWh to 37.2 TWh and H-2 yield six-fold (90,000 million kg to 560,000 million kg) while maintaining zero curtailment. Coordinated deployment of electrolysis and desalination secures > 400 million m(3) of freshwater by the year 2060 and aligns surplus power with green and pink H-2 production, achieving levelized H-2 costs of similar to 1.78US$/kg by 2060. The integrated SMR pathway elevates demand coverage, exports and system reliability, illustrating that H-2 -centered nexus planning, combining variable renewables with firm SMR baseload, enables economically credible, scalable net-zero energy transitions. The framework offers policymakers a transferable decision-support tool to optimize cross-sector investments under net-zero goals.
UT WOS:001656294900001
ER

PT J
AU Alsairafi, AA
   Al-Shehaima, IH
   Darwish, M
AF Alsairafi, A. A.
   Al-Shehaima, I. H.
   Darwish, M.
TI Efficiency improvement and exergy destruction reduction by combining a
   power and a multi-effect boiling desalination plant
DE Combined cycles; energetic analysis; exergy analysis; heat recovery
   steam generator - HRSG; multi-effect distillation - MED
ID DESALTING PLANTS; MULTISTAGE FLASH; REVERSE-OSMOSIS; SYSTEM; KUWAIT;
   WATER; MEMBRANES
AB Electric power and desalted seawater demand is increasing in Kuwait mainly due to residential and industrial growth, especially in summer season. In the past six years, Kuwait citizens have been facing the problem of automated power and water disconnection because of the electricity and water production is lower than the consumption. A common idea for resolving such a problem is to build new power plants but this solution is not practical due to environmental issues. Another choice but more engineer challenging approach for resolving this problem is to improve the efficiency and performance of the already existing power plants. Currently, there are six power plants in Kuwait; four of them have both stand-alone gas-turbine and steam-turbine power plants, one is steam power plant and one is gas turbine power plant. Combined power and desalination plant are more attractive in Kuwait since they have higher thermal efficiency than traditional ones and both electric power and process heat (e.g., desalting) can be produced simultaneously. The relatively low temperature multi-effect desalination (MED) process (around 75 degrees C saturated temperature as the heat source) is thermodynamically the most efficient of all thermal distillation processes (source, and consumes about 2 kWh/m(3) pumping energy). In this study, factors affecting the performance of a combined power and MED-desalination plant have been studied. This includes the atmospheric humidity, compressor inlet air temperature, top brine temperature, desalination unit capacity, cooling water temperature, and the number of evaporation stages of the MED unit. A first- and second-law analysis of the proposed system was carried out under several operating conditions. As an example, a 125 MW Siemens V94.2 gas turbine of Al-Zour gas turbine power plant in Kuwait has been selected. It is found that the overall thermal efficiency of the proposed system increases significantly as the desalination unit capacity increases and this increase can reach 25% (from eta(th,cc) = 55.1% to 69.9% at T-1 = 30 degrees C and phi = 0.30) as the capacity increases from 1 to 5 MIGD. The total work generated decreases insignificantly, i.e. the low pressure steam turbine power decreases from 27 MW to 23 MW while the total power output decreases from 208 MW to 204 MW. In addition, as the desalination unit gain ratio increases, the total exergy destruction is reduced, i.e. the desalination unit exergy destruction increases from 12 MW to 15 MW but the total exergy destruction of the cycle decreases from 352 MW to 349 MW. It can be concluded that the low-temperature MED process offers a potential efficient solution to the current Al-Zour power generation plant.
UT WOS:000333064000014
ER

PT C
AU Purnama, AAF
   Nashiruddin, MI
   Murti, MA
AF Purnama, Arrizky Ayu Faradila
   Nashiruddin, Muhammad Imam
   Murti, Muhammad Ary
GP IEEE
TI Feasibility Study of The IoT-Connectivity Deployment for AMI Service: A
   Case Study in Surabaya City
DE AMI; LPWA; Connectivity; LoRaWAN; Sigfox; NB-IoT
AB The manual reading of electricity, water, gas, and fuel tank meters requires increased fieldwork efficiency and improved measurement accuracy and monitoring related to service users and reducing fraud potential. The implementation of measurement services needs to be supported by communication technology, which has low cost and reliability characteristics.
   AMI (Advanced Meter Infrastructure) is an integrated smart meter system, communication network, and data management system that enables two-way communication between utilities and customers. With AMI's application, it is expected to increase efficiency in monitoring and detecting leaks to overcome losses. IoT is a concept where particular objects can transfer data over the network without requiring human-to-human or human-to-computer interaction. There is technology standardization, namely LPWAN.
   Planning is done by comparing LoRaWAN, Sigfox, and NB-IoT with the main topic of discussion regarding network connectivity for AMI service needs. Based on the planning results, LoRaWAN requires at least 31 gateways with an average signal level of -83.11 dBm, an average throughput of 21.88 kbps, and an average SNR -0.13 dB. Sigfox requires at least 32 gateways with an intermediate signal level of -81.28 dBm, an average throughput of 0.6 kbps, and an average SNR of 14.79 dB. NB-IoT requires at least 31 gateways with an average signal level of -57.38 dBm, an average throughput of 220.36 kbps, and an average SNR of 8.87 dB.
UT WOS:000657974200010
ER

PT C
AU Bushnak, AA
AF Bushnak, AA
GP IAEA
   IAEA
TI Experience in and future prospects for sea water desalination in Saudi
   Arabia
AB The national programme for sea water desalination in Saudi Arabia is assigned to the Saline Water Conversion Corporation (SWCC), a government entity loosely affiliated with the Ministry of Agriculture. In addition to water production, SWCC generates considerable electric power in its dual purpose power/water plants, selling excess power to the national grid. SWCC also builds and maintains certain major fresh water pipelines that connect its plants to important municipal water systems. SWCC's pride is the Research, Development and Training Center (RDTC) located in Al-Jubail. The goals at RDTC include improving plant efficiency and minimizing scale formation and corrosion problems. It also trains Saudi engineers and technicians in the operation and management of SWCC plants. As a result, Saudi nationals now represent 65% of the workforce and are heavily involved with all aspects of plant specification and tender analysis. Working at the plant site, SWCC has been able to optimize the power/water production ratios to minimize the cost of base load plants; use multi-stage flash (MSF)/reverse osmosis (RO) hybrid plants to further reduce water costs; optimize the selection and design of materials; make improvements in the process of site selection and intake design; reduce operation and maintenance costs through the field testing of new process concepts; continue the development and training of plant operators; use local workshops and suppliers whenever possible; field test new products, processes and materials; and, in total, reduce water costs to as low as US $0.53/m(3). Looking to the future, SWCC is aware that it must adopt new policies with respect to pricing and consider the long term implications of subsidized water. It also recognizes that desalination costs will continue to decrease because of economies of scale; use of lower cost materials; more efficient operation; increased use of automation and sophisticated controls; and continuing high competition among suppliers. All these points are, of course, of benefit to the eventual customer. In terms of technical developments, MSF is mature and will see only incremental improvements in cost and performance. Multi-effect distillation (MED) and thermal vapour compression (TVC) are still developing towards larger unit sizes, better efficiency and greater reliability. RO will continue to advance through longer operating histories from which to learn; improved pretreatment techniques, including membrane pretreatment; and improved membranes with lower operating pressures, a higher flux and higher salt rejection. Overall, 50% water recovery will become the norm. Beyond this, new versions of hybrid plants will appear, including membrane/membrane membrane/adsorption and membrane/electrochemical systems. The eventual result will be plants with 100% recovery (zero discharge). The prospects for desalination with nuclear energy are bright, but it must be remembered that most coupling options are not unique to nuclear. Social and political issues are critical and must be addressed early and often. It can be concluded that sea water desalination is now reliable and of reasonable cost; desalination costs will continue to decrease; MSF is close to optimization; MED and TVC are growing in competitiveness to MSE especially in smaller sizes; RO continues to strengthen as a viable candidate under nearly all conditions; the final choice of technology should be reached by an educated customer, not dictated by suppliers; and international co-operation is vital to the further productive reset that is so critical to success.
UT WOS:000084508100035
ER

PT J
AU Chen, X
   Yuan, Y
AF Chen, X.
   Yuan, Y.
TI Development of an efficient ammonia-water power cycle through heat
   exchanger network analysis and artificial neural network
DE Ammonia -water; Kalina cycle; Heat exchanger network; Artificial neural
   networks
ID KALINA CYCLE; OPTIMIZATION; REFRIGERATION; INTEGRATION; RECOVERY;
   RETROFIT; SINGLE; SYSTEM
AB This paper presents an efficient ammonia-water power cycle based on the basic Kalina cycle. The heat exchanger network analysis (HEN) is applied to identify all the possible heat-saving configurations. There are 13 different cycles proposed, and each is analyzed and optimized under the same working condition. The results show that there exists a saturation region between the cycle complexity and thermal performance. The thermal efficiency of the optimum cycle has been increased by 8.5% compared to that of the reference Kalina cycle under the heat source temperature of 550 degrees C and cooling temperature of 24.5 degrees C. The artificial neural network (ANN) surrogate model is also provided to alternatively determine the maximum thermal efficiency under the condition that there is sufficient training data available. The results are compared with those obtained from the thermal model within 0.06% to 1.2% differences. The common practices of ANN in the thermal systems are treated as black-box. Ignorance of thermal principles can lead to a misleading result when using the black-box model, especially for the small size of the training set. In this paper, a thermally constrained ANN architecture is proposed by considering the first law of thermodynamics. The results indicate that, as compared to the black-box model, the generalization performance can be increased at least by 25% with the optimum network configuration of 15-6-3-3 for 50 instances in the training set.
UT WOS:000874530600001
ER

PT C
AU Almatrafi, E
   Moloney, F
   Goswami, DY
AF Almatrafi, Eydhah
   Moloney, Francesca
   Goswami, D. Y.
GP ASME
TI MULTI EFFECTS DESALINATION-MECHANICAL VAPOR COMPRESSION POWERED BY LOW
   TEMPERATURE SUPERCRITICAL ORGANIC RANKINE CYCLE
ID THERMOPHYSICAL PROPERTIES; SEAWATER; DRIVEN; SYSTEM; PLANTS
AB Availability of clean drinking water and power are two important issues in the world. In this paper, an innovative new design of multi effect desalination coupled with mechanical vapor compression (MED-MVC) powered by supercritical organic Rankine cycle utilizing a low grade solar heat source using evacuated tube collectors is analyzed. The supercritical organic Rankine cycle efficiency is about 10% at 150 degrees C and 5MPa with R152a as the working fluid. The performance of the LT-MED-MVC was found to be better than similar systems found in the literature. The specific power consumption for MVC is lower than 1 kWh/m(3) for seawater feed salinity of 42,000 ppm, 14 forward feed effects, and a recovery rate of 50%. The overall system efficiency is 7%. The impact of increasing the number of effects on the performance ratio, effect specific area, specific power consumption, solar collector area, and the system efficiency are also analyzed in this paper.
UT WOS:000428485500020
ER

PT J
AU Cheng, YB
   Zhan, HB
   Yang, WB
   Feng, W
   Lu, Q
   Wang, YQ
   Jiang, QN
   Wang, B
   Shi, MC
   Wang, T
   Xin, ZM
   Hao, RF
AF Cheng, Yiben
   Zhan, Hongbin
   Yang, Wenbin
   Feng, Wei
   Lu, Qi
   Wang, Yunqi
   Jiang, Qunou
   Wang, Bin
   Shi, Mingchang
   Wang, Tao
   Xin, Zhiming
   Hao, Ruifang
TI Redistribution process of precipitation in ecological restoration
   activity of Pinus sylvestris var. mongolica in Mu Us Sandy Land, China
DE Three North Shelterbelt project; Mu us sandy land; Pinus sylvestris var
   mongolica; Precipitation redistribution; Deep soil recharge
ID SOIL-WATER RECHARGE; VEGETATION RESTORATION; AFFORESTATION; RAINFALL;
   CARBON; STAND; MOISTURE; REGION
AB Precipitation is the most important water resource in semi-arid regions of China. The redistribution of precipitation among atmospheric water, soil water and groundwater are related to the land surface afforested ecological system. The study took widely replanted Pinus sylvestris var. Mongolica (PSM) in Mu Us Sandy Land (MUSL) as a research object and monitored precipitation, soil moisture, sap flow, and deep soil recharge (DSR) to find out moisture distribution in shallow soil layers. Results showed that the restoration process of PSM in MUSL changed the distribution of precipitation, with part of it infiltrating downward as DSR and part of it being stored in the shallow soil. Consequently, evapotranspiration increased and DSR significantly decreased, resulting in up to 466.9 mm of precipitation returning to the atmosphere through evapotranspiration in 2016. Vegetation increased soil water storage (SWS) capacity, with maximum SWS in PSM plot and bare sandy land (BSL) being 260 mm and 197 mm per unit horizontal area, respectively in 2016. DSR decreased from 54% of precipitation in the BSL plot to 0.2% of precipitation in the PSM plot in 2016. A great portion of infiltrated water was stored in the PSM ecosystem, resulting in a time lag of infiltration to reach the deep soil layer, and the infiltration rate in the BSL plot was 11 times of that in the PSM plot. SWS decreased 16 mm and 7.6 mm per unit horizontal area over a one-year period (from March to October, non-freezing time) in 2017 and 2019, respectively. The PSM annual sap flow was maintained at a relatively constant level of 154 mm/yr. Through in-situ measurement and comparative analysis of the precipitation redistribution of the BSL plot and the PSM plot, we find that PSM can significantly reduce the shallow soil water storage and DSR. However, substantial reduction of shallow soil water storage and DSR is detrimental for the long-term development of PSM forest. Therefore, it is necessary to reduce PSM density to cut the water consumption by PSM per unit area, thus to augment the shallow SWS and DSR, which will be beneficial for the PSM to survive under extreme drought conditions in the future. This study helps us understand the role of precipitation induced groundwater recharge in the process of vegetation restoration in semi-arid regions and explains the possible causes of PSM forest degradation.& COPY; 2022 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
UT WOS:001021622600001
ER

PT J
AU Ge, MH
   Zhao, YT
   Xuan, ZW
   Zhao, YL
   Wang, SX
AF Ge, Minghui
   Zhao, Yuntong
   Xuan, Zhiwei
   Zhao, Yulong
   Wang, Shixue
TI Experimental research on the performance of BIPV/T system with
   water-cooled wall
DE BIPV/T; Power generation efficiency; Waste heat recovery; Domestic hot
   water
AB Solar photovoltaic/thermal building integrated power/heat technology (BIPV/T) can provide both electricity and heat to buildings, which is important for improving the efficiency of solar energy utilization and reducing building energy consumption. In this paper, a BIPV/T system with water-cooled wall is proposed. The water-cooled wall heat exchanger is not in direct contact with the PV module, and uses air to dissipate heat from the PV module, which in turn heats domestic water, and can provide hot water or hot air to the building as needed. This paper experimentally investigates the system's ability to produce domestic hot water and power generation performance, with an average power generation efficiency of 12.6% for the whole day and providing 35 degrees C domestic hot water for more than 7 h. The results of this paper have some guiding significance for the efficient operation of BIPV/T. (C) 2022 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.
UT WOS:000818068500053
ER

PT C
AU Zong, QL
   Wu, SJ
   Huang, JL
AF Zong, Quanli
   Wu, Sujie
   Huang, Jiulin
GP Destech Publicat Inc
TI Simulation on Water Temperature Change Process of Diversion Channel for
   Pumping Well Water to Melt Ice
DE Pumping well water to melt ice; numerical simulation; water temperature;
   diversion channel; high altitude and cold regions
ID JAM
AB Based on the diversion channel of Hongshanzui Water Power Station in Xinjiang, water temperature change process of diversion channel for Pumping well water to melt ice (PWWMI) was simulated in this paper. The experimental and simulation results of water temperature change obtained from prototype boundary conditions were compared, and the results indicate that the simulation results are in good agreement with the experimental results, which can ensure the reliability of the simulation results. The changes of water temperature were simulated under different boundary conditions, which are different discharges of well water, different temperatures of well water. The results indicate that the discharges, temperatures of well water are proportional to mixed water temperature, which mixed water temperature increases with the discharge and temperatures of well water increase. The results also indicate that increasing the discharge of well water is the most effective and convenient ice-melting method in practical engineering.
UT WOS:000375561905061
ER

PT J
AU Boroomandnia, A
   Rismanchi, B
   Wu, WY
   Anderson, R
AF Boroomandnia, Arezoo
   Rismanchi, Behzad
   Wu, Wenyan
   Anderson, Rhys
TI Operation optimisation of micro pumped storage for decarbonisation of
   water and electricity distribution network in urban areas
DE Optimal MPS scheduling; Water-energy nexus; Electricity decarbonisation;
   Buildings' sustainability rating; Energy storage
ID HYDRO ENERGY-STORAGE; EFFICIENCY; MODEL; MANAGEMENT; BUILDINGS;
   PRECURSOR; SYSTEMS; DESIGN
AB The rapid growth in renewable energy generation has heightened the need for enhanced energy storage capacity. Micro Pumped Storage (MPS) offers a dual-function alternative to conventional batteries by integrating energy storage with non-potable water supply (NPWS) in high-rise buildings. This study hypothesises that jointly optimising MPS operation for emissions and water reuse can improve both environmental and economic performance. A multi-objective genetic algorithm (GA) is developed to optimise monthly scheduling under timevarying electricity prices and emission factors, incorporating penalty-based constraints to ensure water supply reliability. Our findings indicate that optimising MPS schedule can reduce operational emissions, with reductions of 4 % to 25 % in ES mode, and 25 % to 43 % in NPWS mode. Additionally, the NPWS mode reduces potable water consumption by up to 3000 m3 annually, which translates to saving 54 MWh of energy and 44 tonnes of CO2 within Melbourne's water distribution network. These environmental and economic benefits contribute to a reduction in the payback period of MPS installations by up to 20 years, particularly in NPWS mode. Compared to equivalent-capacity lithium-ion batteries, MPS systems offer shorter payback periods and additional sustainability benefits. Furthermore, MPS provides a viable pathway to secure sustainability certification such as Green Star, and support urban decarbonisation through integrated water-energy optimisation. Practical challenges, however, must be addressed for wider adoption.
UT WOS:001540218700001
ER

PT C
AU Harrod, JC
   Mago, PJ
AF Harrod, James C.
   Mago, Pedro J.
GP ASME
TI SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS OF A BIOMASS FIRED STIRLING ENGINE COMBINED
   COOLING, HEATING, AND POWER SYSTEM FOR A SMALL OFFICE BUILDING
ID OPTIMIZATION
AB Over the past decade, rising energy demand and cost have created a surge of interest in alternative methods of power generation. As a result, the implementation of combined cooling, heating, and power (CCHP) systems has become a potential candidate for substitution in conventional power generation. The evaluation of a CCHP system must be based on its potential for savings in cost and primary energy reduction. In general, a CCHP system includes several components to satisfy the electric and thermal demands of the facility. These components include the prime mover, heat recovery system, auxiliary boiler, absorption chiller, heating coil unit, and hot water system unit. In practice, the most common prime mover used in CCHP technology is the internal combustion engine, which is limited by low thermal efficiency and poor emissions. Hence, this paper proposes the use of a Stirling engine prime mover that makes use of waste wood chips for fuel. In addition to the standard CCHP components, the Stirling engine houses heat exchangers to aid heat addition and rejection processes. These heat exchangers must be considered along with the other components when analyzing energy requirements. The goal of this study is to determine how the operational characteristics of a constant output biomass-fired Stirling CCHP system are affected by the performance of the individual CCHP system components. The results of this sensitivity analysis are useful in determining the most important parameters to be considered when implementing and designing the system. Results suggest that fuel cost, engine efficiency, engine size, chiller efficiency, and the Stirling engine's hot side heat exchanger play the most important roles in the CCHP system operational cost. For example, the results show that increasing the engine size leads to increases in primary energy. In addition, an optimum engine size is suggested for cost savings, with smaller and larger engines both leading to increases in operational cost.
UT WOS:000320625800081
ER

PT J
AU Wang, YQ
   Cao, XX
   Bai, W
   Zhao, YZ
AF Wang, Yuqian
   Cao, Xiaxin
   Bai, Wei
   Zhao, Yazhuo
TI Low-temperature desalination based on natural circulation driven by
   waste heat
DE Low-temperature waste heat; Desalination; Natural circulation flow;
   Mathematical model; Combined water and electricity production
ID SYSTEM
AB The cooling of coastal power plants generates a large amount of warm water discharge. The discharge of warm water can cause thermal pollution to the surrounding sea areas. The reuse of the discharged warm water by using seawater desalination technology can effectively alleviate the thermal pollution problem. To address the parasitic effects of existing seawater desalination technologies on power plants, a passive flow-flash desalination system driven by natural circulation flow (PFFD-NCF) has been proposed. The system utilizes fluid density differences to establish natural circulation, employing the water column in vertical pipes to generate a localized vacuum and thereby enable flow-flash evaporation under low-temperature conditions. A mathematical model of the PFFD-NCF system was developed to simulate the coupled flow, heat, and mass transfer processes. The model's reliability and accuracy were validated against experimental data exhibiting similar physical phenomena. Sensitivity analysis indicated that increasing pipe elevation, enlarging pipe diameter, and reducing the concentrated brine discharge rate can all enhance system performance. The results show that the system can be driven by a 308.15 K heat source to achieve efficient seawater desalination. The freshwater production rate reaches 0.003 kg/s while the main equipment occupying 0.1 m2, with a specific energy consumption of 2483.8 kJ/kg. A comparison with other low-temperature heat-driven desalination methods demonstrates a lower required heat source temperature, superior performance, and improved capacity to mitigate thermal pollution from power plants.
UT WOS:001634715500001
ER

PT C
AU Bhargava, B
   Salazar, A
AF Bhargava, B.
   Salazar, A.
GP IEEE
TI Synchronized Measurement and Analysis in Real Time SMART® - system at
   Southern California Edison (SCE) Co
DE Wide Area Measurement System; Voltage Stability; Synchronized Phasor
   Measurement Unit; Security Analysis; Mode Estimation; Load Modeling
AB This paper is discussing the use of Synchronized Phasor Measurement System (SPMS) Technology, which is now being used for monitoring power system status and dynamic transient event recording at Southern California Edison (SCE) off-line and in Real-time. This real time monitoring system is expected to enhance the Transmission system reliability and provide wide area visibility of the WECC system. The SPMS will enable SCE to monitor AC-DC power transmission system reliability and improve reliability by monitoring the phase angles and oscillations at several substations and two remote DC terminals.
   The system could be used for real-time control in future.
   Recently SCE has developed this tool called "SMART", which enables SCE to view the phasor measurement system data in real-time. SCE also obtains phasor measurement data from Bonneville Power Administration Grand Coulee generating substation, which is over 900 miles away, and close to the Northern HVDC Pacific Inter-tie terminal and monitors the phase angle between the north and the south HVDC Pacific Inter-tie terminals. Monitoring these angle separation is a very useful way of tracking the stress on the WECC North-South system.
   SCE is continuing to work on this technology with Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) and Los Angeles Water and Power to investigate the possibility implementing it for real-time monitoring. SCE is also working with other Western Electric Coordinating Council (WECC) members for information exchange. It is believed that the technology has great potentials for enhancing power system stability and power transmission system capability of an AC-DC inter-tie system. This technology is also being used for monitoring the system stability and resulting information can assist in avoiding major system disturbances like the one that occurred on August 10, 1996 in WECC and on August 14, 2003 in Northeast United States and Canada.
UT WOS:000263861200081
ER

PT J
AU Gilau, AM
   Small, MJ
AF Gilau, Asmerom M.
   Small, Mitchell J.
TI Designing cost-effective seawater reverse osmosis system under optimal
   energy options
DE reverse osmosis; energy recovery; optimal energy options; energy
   storage; power cost; water cost
ID DESALINATION; CONSUMPTION; RO
AB Today, three billion people around the world have no access to clean drinking water and about 1.76 billion people live in areas already facing a high degree of water stress. This paper analyzes the cost-effectiveness of a stand alone small-scale renewable energy-powered seawater reverse osmosis (SWRO) system for developing countries. In this paper, we have introduced a new methodology; an energy optimization model which simulates hourly power production from renewable energy sources. Applying the model using the wind and solar radiation conditions for Eritrea, East Africa, we have computed hourly water production for a two-stage SWRO system with a capacity of 35 m(3)/day. According to our results, specific energy consumption is about 2.33 kW h/m(3), which is a lower value than that achieved in most of the previous designs. The use of a booster pump, energy recovery turbine and an appropriate membrane, allows the specific energy consumption to be decreased by about 70% compared to less efficient design without these features. The energy recovery turbine results in a reduction in the water cost of about 41%. Our results show that a wind-powered system is the least cost and a PV-powered system the most expensive, with finished water costs of about 0.50 and 1.00$/m(3), respectively. By international standards, for example, in China, these values are considered economically feasible. Detailed simulations of the RO system design, energy options, and power, water, and life-cycle costs are presented. (C) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000252997100009
ER

PT J
AU Arboleda, CA
   Abraham, DM
   Lubitz, R
AF Arboleda, Carlos A.
   Abraham, Dulcy M.
   Lubitz, Robert
TI Simulation as a tool to assess the vulnerability of the operation of a
   health care facility
ID SYSTEM DYNAMICS
AB Health care systems are classified as critical infrastructure systems when responding to disaster events. Physical damage to health care facilities or disruption of their operations or supply chains could prevent an effective response and aggravate the outcome of an emergency situation. Even if a hospital or public health facility were not directly affected by the disaster event, these facilities are required to operate efficiently during an emergency in order to manage a surge of capacity. When infrastructure systems are damaged as a result of man-made or natural disaster events, insufficient supply of resources through these systems affects their performance. In this paper, a system dynamics simulation model will be used as a tool to represent the operation of a health care facility, including the interaction between the different service areas (emergency room, intensive care unit, wards, operating room), the flow of patients inside the facility, and the condition of the infrastructure systems that supply resources (i.e., water, power, transportation of medical supplies) to maintain the operation of the facility. The results of this study may assist hospital administrators in their disaster preparedness plans, providing information regarding the level of occupancy and patients waiting to enter the service areas.
UT WOS:000248097800007
ER

PT J
AU Hofmeister, M
   Brownbridge, G
   Hillman, M
   Mosbach, S
   Akroyd, J
   Lee, KF
   Kraft, M
AF Hofmeister, Markus
   Brownbridge, George
   Hillman, Michael
   Mosbach, Sebastian
   Akroyd, Jethro
   Lee, Kok Foong
   Kraft, Markus
TI Cross-domain flood risk assessment for smart cities using dynamic
   knowledge graphs
DE Knowledge graph; Digital twin; Smart city; Flood assessment;
   Interoperability
AB This paper investigates the usage of knowledge graphs to bridge the gap between current data silos in deriving a holistic perspective on the impact of flooding. It builds on the idea of connected digital twins based on the World Avatar dynamic knowledge graph to deploy an ecosystem of autonomous software agents to continuously ingest new real-world information and operate on it. Multiple publicly available yet isolated data sources, including geospatial building information and property sales data as well as real-time river levels, weather observations, and flood warnings, are connected to instantiate a semantically rich ecosystem of knowledge, data, and computational capabilities to provide cross-domain insights in projected flooding events and their potential impact on population and built infrastructure. The extensibility of the proposed approach is highlighted by further integrating power, water, and telecoms infrastructure as part of the very same system, in order to analyse flood-induced asset failures and their propagation across networks. The World Avatar promotes evidence-based decision making during several disaster management phases, supporting both tactical and strategic risk assessments, which supports the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal 11 to improve the assessment of vulnerability, exposure, and risk of communities imposed by flooding events.
UT WOS:001144851300001
ER

PT J
AU Lee, T
   Cho, H
   Park, H
   Kwak, J
AF Lee, Taejin
   Cho, Hesun
   Park, Haeryong
   Kwak, Jin
TI Detection of Malware Propagation in Sensor Node and Botnet Group
   Clustering Based on E-mail Spam Analysis
AB Cyber incidents are increasing continuously. More than 200,000 new malicious codes appear, with more than 30,000 malicious codes distributed each day on average. These cyber attacks are expanding gradually to the social infrastructure (nuclear energy, power, water, etc.) and smart sensor networks. This paper proposes a method of detecting malware propagation in sensor Node and botnet clustering automatically by analyzing e-mails. More than 80% of spam e-mails are generated by the Node infected with malicious code, using various methods to avoid filtering such as direct-to-MX, fake Received header, and open relay vulnerability. This paper proposes a scheme that detects those types accurately, including a clustering method that targets the URL included in the e-mail body, e-mail subject, attached file, and hosting server, to detect the botnet group infected with the same malicious code. The proposed method recorded about 85% zombie IP detection rate when spam e-mails distributed in a commercial environment were analyzed. When applied to the portal site that delivers 10 million e-mails, the proposed technology is expected to detect at least 150,000 zombie Nodes each day. If advanced measures are taken against the detected zombie Nodes, the spread of cyber attack damages can apparently be reduced.
UT WOS:000362741300001
ER

PT J
AU Yadav, N
   Rajendra, K
   Awasthi, A
   Singh, C
AF Yadav, Namita
   Rajendra, Kushagra
   Awasthi, Amit
   Singh, Charan
TI Systematic exploration of heat wave impact on mortality and urban heat
   island: A review from 2000 to 2022
DE Heat wave; Heat stress; Mortality; Urban heat island
ID WEATHER SYNOPTIC CONDITIONS; TEMPERATURE EXTREMES; TIME-SERIES; SUMMER
   HEAT; HOT DAYS; CLIMATE; CITY; CHINA; RISK; VULNERABILITY
AB The current climate change is responsible for the growth in number of extreme climatic events like heat waves (HWs), which occur frequently with more intense effects. HW poses direct as well as indirect impact on health of population, urban heat island, air quality, and have consequences on the biological phenomena. Aim of this study is to review the available literature of research related to HW and its impact on human health and urban heat island. Science-direct is used as online database to identify the studies related to HW from 2000 to 2022 using the keyword HW impact, HW and mortality & HW extremes. To identify maximum variable information about HW and its effect throughout the world, during the extraction of articles, no constraints were added related to study area. Total 99 research articles are identified during online database search on science-direct using the mentioned keywords. After going through different inclusion and exclusion criteria, only 46 studies are included in this review article. After summarization, authors identified many effect categories, mainly were mortality, morbidity, thermal stress, air quality, biological consequences, effect of HW on demand of water and electricity, relationship between HW and Urban Heat Island, and HW related urban policies. It is observed on the basis of extracted articles that number of studies and publications on HW are increasing rapidly and sharp increase is observed in last decade. Present review clearly indicates that due to different natural and anthropogenic reasons, there is change in temperature range due to which the HW events are increasing and its studies are also increases. After reviewing the HW related articles it is recommended that it is right time to make some full proof strategies to adopt workplace heat stress standard and encourage people to planting a tree, installing cool and green roofs, etc.
UT WOS:001052990200001
ER

PT J
AU Knodt, M
   Stöckl, A
   Steinke, F
   Pietsch, M
   Hornung, G
   Stroscher, JP
AF Knodt, Michele
   Stoeckl, Anna
   Steinke, Florian
   Pietsch, Martin
   Hornung, Gerrit
   Stroscher, Jan-Philipp
TI Power blackout: Citizens? contribution to strengthen urban resilience
DE Power blackout; Power resources; Renewable energies; Share electricity;
   Common good; Resilience; Crisis management
AB A long-lasting, large-scale power blackout has a huge impact on the infrastructure of public life, as well as on critical infrastructure including electricity and water supply. At the same time, it can be observed that the share of renewable energies, and thus the possibility of self-sufficiency, has increased enormously in recent years. This contribution focuses on the question to what extend citizens are willing to share their electricity resources in order to make their city more resilient. In reference to Ostrom's concept of club or common goods, it can be shown if and how the private good of citizen's electricity resources can be transformed into a club or even a common good. Drawing on survey data from the city of Darmstadt we investigated the willingness to share electricity and to participate in participatory formats to enhance urban resilience.
UT WOS:000921750400001
ER

PT J
AU Hernandez-Fajardo, I
   Dueñas-Osorio, L
AF Hernandez-Fajardo, Isaac
   Duenas-Osorio, Leonardo
TI Sequential Propagation of Seismic Fragility across Interdependent
   Lifeline Systems
ID INFRASTRUCTURE; RELIABILITY; NETWORK
AB Realistic models of service networks must consider the evolution of interactions with external systems to evaluate emergent response effects on individual network performance. This paper introduces a new dynamic methodology for the assessment of systemic fragility propagation across interdependent networks subjected to seismic action that improves existing static methodologies. Interdependencies are discrete, unidirectional relationships between elements of distinct networks, which are able to influence response evolution from transient to steady-state stages. Comparisons of systemic fragility curves results for isolated and interdependent power and water networks display the importance of interdependence strength and density properties. For the test water network, inter-systemic failure propagation increases its connectivity loss by up to 24%, while high interdependence strengths make the median fragility rise up to 56.2%. In contrast, reductions of interdependence density improve the median water fragility up to 81.7%. Insights obtained from this model, and its associated sequential fragility algorithm, reveal complex coupling patterns and interdependence-based mitigation strategies that are essential for lifeline system management. [DOI: 10.1193/1.3544052]
UT WOS:000208675900001
ER

PT C
AU Mundada, K
   Kanjalkar, P
   Kulkarni, J
AF Mundada, Kapil
   Kanjalkar, Pramod
   Kulkarni, Jayant
BE Krishna, PV
   Babu, MR
   Ariwa, E
TI Development of Sensor Node to Measure Soil Moisture
DE Soil moisture; Sensor Node; ARM; RTC; RF Communication
AB The Soil moisture is a vital parameter which decides the quality of a crop. A sensor node prototype is developed to measure soil moisture, analyse it and transmit it over long distance for further processing. Sensor node is a combination of a sensor, signal conditioning circuit, controller and communication module. A low power processor ARM7 is used as a controller. It periodically scans the clock and depending upon the time set by the user the sensor data is checked and accordingly process is carried out. As crops are watered only upon requirement. over and under irrigation is avoided which saves power and water resources. The sensor data is communicated by using RF transmitter (433MHz) to a receiver or base station for logging and display. The hardware architecture is designed to establish the link between a sensor and a controller. The longtime smooth and proper running of the system in the field proved its high reliability and practicability. As an explorative wireless sensor network in irrigation management. this paper gives a methodology to establish large-scale remote intelligent irrigation system.
UT WOS:000312914300071
ER

PT C
AU Fidge, C
AF Fidge, Colin
GP IEEE
TI When Worlds Collide: Safety, Mission and Security-Critical System
   Engineering
AB Critical infrastructure is undergoing a fundamental change worldwide in areas such as power, water, transport, defence, etc. Control systems that were previously physically-isolated and constructed from purpose-built components are increasingly being standardised and interconnected, exposing them to corporate networks and even the Internet. Consequently, well-established ways of engineering systems for safety and reliability are now being forced to address the additional demands of information security.
   Having conducted research into a variety of safety-critical, mission-critical and security-critical systems, we reflect here on the different emphases they place on basic system requirements. For example, some properties, such as availability, have much higher importance for safety-critical systems than security-critical ones. By contrast, where data confidentiality is the primary concern of a security-critical system, it may be of lower priority in a safety-critical context, and so on.
   We also review and contrast some widely-cited design principles for critical systems to identify their commonalities and differences. For instance, where a mission-critical system may emphasise ease-of-access for system maintenance, this directly contradicts the security principle of minimising the exposed attack surface. Similarly, while duplicating components can improve reliability it simultaneously creates more opportunities for security violations.
   Ultimately we conclude not that the worlds of safety, mission and security-critical system engineering are on a disastrous collision course, but rather that the growing complexity of our critical infrastructure means that system developers are now obliged to consider carefully all three perspectives.
UT WOS:000380493000001
ER

PT J
AU Pinto, DV
   Rosa, JS
   Wander, PR
AF Pinto, Daniel Viera
   Rosa, Josimar Souza
   Wander, Paulo Roberto
TI Thermal and electrical performance analysis of a lightweight micro CHP
   system for recreational vehicles
DE Recreational Vehicles; Micro CHP; Thermal performance; Cogeneration;
   Heat recovery
ID STEAM REFORMER; COMBINED HEAT; DIESEL; POWER; MODEL
AB For comfortable use of a Recreational Vehicle (RV), there is a need to supply electrical energy to recharge the batteries and supply the installed equipment, as well as thermal energy, for hot water and ambient heating. A conventional solution for supplying electrical energy is the installation of photovoltaic modules combined with connection to an electrical grid, when possible. Water heating is generally done using a passage gas heater or hybrid gas/electric storage heater. Imported vehicles have gas heating and many other vehicles have diesel heaters. To develop an alternative to currently available energy supply methods, this work proposes the creation of a cogeneration system for RVs. From a literature review, a research gap was identified in relation to micro CHP devices for RVs. In the development of this work, a micro CHP prototype was created, with 980 W of maximum electrical power, consisting of a single-cylinder internal combustion engine, an automotive alternator and heat exchangers for heat recovery. The prototype was enclosed and instrumented, allowing to evaluate the thermal power obtained in water flowing through exhaust gases, lubricating oil and cooling air heat recovery systems, in addition to measuring the electrical power of the alternator. Operational tests were carried out with 46 different test conditions, combining variations in the engine speed (N) and in electrical load. The prototype electrical efficiency reached 10.18 % +/- 0.2 % at 3008 rpm with 83 % load. The maximum electrical power was 0.746 kW +/- 0.015 kW at 3637 rpm and 100 % load. The maximum thermal energy recovery rate was 3.267 kW +/- 0.039 kW. Utilization factor reached 65.57 % +/- 0.33 % at 3208 rpm with 63 % load. Compared to traditional means of providing electrical power and thermal power for RVs, the prototype proved to be more advantageous when the demand is for electrical power and space heating. However, for conditions in which the demand is for electrical power and water heating, or just electrical power, the current solutions available are still more efficient.
UT WOS:001300052400001
ER

PT J
AU Liew, PY
   Walmsley, TG
   Alwi, SRW
   Manan, ZA
   Klemes, JJ
   Varbanov, PS
AF Liew, Peng Yen
   Walmsley, Timothy Gordon
   Alwi, Sharifah Rafidah Wan
   Manan, Zainuddin Abdul
   Klemes, Jiri Jaromir
   Varbanov, Petar Sabev
TI Integrating district cooling systems in Locally Integrated Energy
   Sectors through Total Site Heat Integration
DE Total Site Heat Integration; Process Integration; District cooling
   system; Chilled water network; Waste heat
ID LOW-GRADE HEAT; INDUSTRIAL CLUSTERS; RENEWABLE ENERGY; RECOVERY SYSTEMS;
   GRID DIAGRAM; CAPITAL-COST; OPTIMIZATION; REDUCTION; FRAMEWORK; TARGETS
AB Between 20% and 50% of world energy consumption is lost as waste heat through energy conversion and transportation in manufacturing processes. Within industrial clusters and Locally Integrated Energy Systems (LIES), waste heat recovery for the purpose of heating and power generation has been well established via schemes such as process streams Heat Integration, cogeneration system, district heating integration, boiler feed water preheating and Organic Rankine Cycle. Waste heat can also be used to generate cooling energy via technologies such as the absorption chiller. During the summer season and in tropical countries, space cooling in buildings typically consumes up to 50% of the total energy consumption. Further recovery of waste heat to generate cooling can result in huge energy savings and emission reduction. This paper presents a new Total Site Energy Integration concept that integrates not only heat and power, but also cooling. The waste heat technology considered for cooling generation are Absorption Chiller (AC) and Electric Compression Chiller (EC). As there is actually an economic trade-off between amounts of chilled water generated, cooling water and power consumed, the new framework has been proposed to guide users in selecting the most economical waste heat-to-cooling technology for Industrial Clusters and LIES. For the presented case study, the lowest-cost solution used a waste-heat driven AC supplying 4.0 MW of Chilled Water (ChW) and a supplementary EC supplying the remaining 1.0 MW. The electricity demand of the integrated system is loaded by 1.3 MWe through this ChW generation system configuration, while the cooling tower load is increased by 3.3 MW. The ChW is expected to be generated at USD 115.10/kW y compared to USD 270.9/kW y for generating ChW by a conventional EC system without waste heat recovery. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000389785200118
ER

PT J
AU Zhang, L
   Ahmad, SF
   Cui, ZT
   Al Razgan, M
   Awwad, EM
   Ayassrah, AYABA
   Shi, K
AF Zhang, Lei
   Ahmad, Sayed Fayaz
   Cui, Zhenti
   Al Razgan, Muna
   Awwad, Emad Marous
   Ayassrah, Ahmad Y. A. Bani Ahmad
   Shi, Kwanho
TI Energy, exergy, thermoeconomic analysis of a novel multi-generation
   system based on geothermal, kalina, double effect absorption chiller,
   and LNG regasification
DE Energy; Exergy; Cost per exergy; Geothermal; Absorption chiller; Kalian
   cycle
ID WASTE HEAT-RECOVERY; GAS-TURBINE CYCLE; THERMODYNAMIC ANALYSIS;
   EXERGOECONOMIC ANALYSIS; MULTIOBJECTIVE OPTIMIZATION; RENEWABLE ENERGY;
   POWER CYCLE; 4E ANALYSIS; DRIVEN; HYDROGEN
AB The current work proposes a novel CCHP system based on geothermal energy, which can generate hot water, chilled water, and power. Kalina is considered for power generation, double-effect absorption chiller cycle for cooling production, and LNG regasification cycle for thermal integration of absorption chiller and electric power generation. The hot water is generated using the heat recovery exchanger. Energy, exergy, economic, and environmental assessments are made on the proposed system to see how it can improve energy and exergy efficiency compared to the single state. Also, an environmental assessment is carried out to analyze the reduction of CO2 emission rate compared to other studies that used biomass and fossil energy sources. The findings were confirmed considering the outcomes of the previous works, and the proposed system showed remarkable performance in terms of exergy and energy efficiency, which were 85.22 % and 52.79 %, respectively. Also, the highest irreversibility exists in the LNG Regasification sector, with a ratio of 81 %. The economic estimation determined that the two parameters, total cost rate and cost per exergy, are 186.74 $/h and 8.3 $/GJ, respectively. Therefore, the innovation of the work lies in the heart of heating, cooling, and power products compared to the previous works.
UT WOS:001253646600001
ER

PT J
AU Cai, BN
   Gao, RH
   Sun, YT
   Che, XJ
   Tian, JM
   Wang, HJ
   Cai, WH
AF Cai, Benan
   Gao, Ruihang
   Sun, Yutong
   Che, Xunjian
   Tian, Jiameng
   Wang, Haijun
   Cai, Weihua
TI Integrated advanced exergy and life cycle assessment of a novel
   PEMFC-driven tri-generation system for power, heating, and desalination
DE Combined heat, power, and water system; Waste heat recovery; Advanced
   exergy analysis; Life cycle assessment
ID SPRAY FLASH EVAPORATION; ENERGY
AB Low-temperature proton exchange membrane fuel cell exhibits distinct advantages over conventional energy converters. To address the challenge of low-grade waste heat recovery in hydrogen systems, this study introduces a novel tri-generation system integrating methanol reforming, LT-PEMFC, spray flash desalination, and a heat pump for combined power, heat, and freshwater production. The principal novelty lies in the synergistic coupling of the SFD unit and a heat pump to achieve a deep cascade of thermal energy. A comprehensive 4E (energy, exergy, economic, and exergoenvironmental) evaluation framework, uniquely combined with advanced exergy analysis and life cycle assessment, was implemented to identify optimization priorities and quantify environmental footprints. Results indicate that at an LT-PEMFC operating temperature of 353.15 K, the system achieves high-performance benchmarks with energy and exergy efficiencies of 81.33% and 71.77%, respectively. Advanced exergy analysis reveals that the LT-PEMFC possesses the highest proportion of avoidable exergy destruction, marking it as the primary target for thermodynamic refinement. LCA results identify the usage phase as the most environmentally impactful stage. These findings demonstrate that the proposed system offers a highly efficient and sustainable solution for decentralized energy supply in remote or water-stressed regions, providing both a holistic evaluation framework and robust data support for the deployment of next-generation green energy systems.
UT WOS:001756823800001
ER

PT J
AU Hughes, W
   Zhang, W
AF Hughes, William
   Zhang, Wei
TI Evaluation of post-disaster home livability for coastal communities in a
   changing climate
DE Home livability; Climate change; Infrastructure systems; Community
   resilience; Residential building vulnerability; Power distribution
   fragility; Transportation fragility; Hurricane sandy
ID POWER DISTRIBUTION POLES; HURRICANE DAMAGE; RESILIENCE; IMPACTS; RISK
AB With sea level rise and hurricane intensification projected in coming years due to climate change, the risk to coastal communities is greatly amplified. In the wake of potential future hurricane scenarios, various infrastructure systems, including residential buildings, power and water systems, and transportation networks, could be damaged or disrupted, leading to uninhabitable homes and communities for extended periods following disasters. To quantify the potential effects of climate change on the post-disaster livability of coastal homes and communities, a framework is proposed integrating the vulnerabilities of various interconnected infrastructure systems under different climate change scenarios. A novel metric, the post-disaster home livability index, is developed to quantify the resilience and habitability of homes and communities following a natural disaster. To evaluate climate change effects on the community livability under a future Hurricane Sandy scenario in the year 2100, a case study is conducted for a community in the state of Connecticut. To compare different possible emissions scenarios, two potential future representative concentration pathway (RCP) climate change scenarios, RCP2.6, and RCP8.5, are considered alongside uncertainties in the future climate's effects. The framework is used to evaluate the benefits of different structural adaptations, such as building elevation or power system maintenance. Such actions are found to have the potential to reduce storm impacts such that future Sandy's impacts on post-disaster damages and livability could be of similar or even lesser severity than the original Sandy's. These findings can help inform enhanced adaptation strategies to improve community resilience.
UT WOS:001072593400001
ER

PT J
AU Gao, W
   Jing, XL
   Chen, J
   Li, HX
   Sun, YB
   Yang, DY
AF Gao, Wei
   Jing, Xuliang
   Chen, Jing
   Li, Hongxiong
   Sun, Yubin
   Yang, Dongyuan
TI A stepwise optimization method for topology structure of fluid machinery
   network
DE Fluid machinery network; Recoverable pressure head; Topology structure;
   Model; Optimization; Systems engineering
ID PUMP; RECOVERY; ENERGY
AB The circulating water system is widely used as the cooling system in the process industry, which has the characteristics of high water and power consumption, and its energy consumption level has an important impact on the economic performance of the whole system. Pump network and water turbine network constitute the work network of the circulating water system, that is, the fluid machinery network. Based on the previous studies, this paper proposes a stepwise method to optimize the fluid machinery network, that is, to optimize the network structure by using the recoverable pressure-head curve of the branch, and consider the recovery of adjustable resistance at the valve of each branch, so as to further reduce energy consumption and water consumption. The calculation result of the case shows that the topology structure optimization can further reduce the operation cost and the annual capital cost on the basis of the fixed structure optimization, and the total annualized cost can be reduced by 30.04%. The optimization result of different flow shows that both the pump network and the water turbine network tend to series structure at a low flow rate whereas to parallel structure at a high flow rate. (c) 2024 The Chemical Industry and Engineering Society of China, and Chemical Industry Press Co., Ltd. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.
UT WOS:001348628000001
ER

PT J
AU Zhang, L
   Chen, ZJ
AF Zhang, Lian
   Chen, Zijian
TI Design and Research of the Movable Hybrid Photovoltaic-Thermal (PVT)
   System
DE photo-thermal utilization; photovoltaic power generation; hybrid
   photovoltaic-thermal system; control system; efficiency
ID DEDICATED VENTILATION SYSTEMS; HEAT-RECOVERY TECHNOLOGY; SOLAR;
   PERFORMANCE
AB In recent years, with the development of photovoltaic system and photo-thermal system technology, hybrid photovoltaic-thermal (PVT) technology has been a breakthrough in many aspects. This paper describes the movable hybrid PVT system from the aspects of appearance structure, energy flow, and control circuit. The system is equipped with rolling wheels and the simulated light sources also can be removed so that the system can be used in the outdoor conditions. The movable system is also suitable for the PVT system and its related applications without any external power supply. This system combines two technologies: photovoltaic power generation and photo-thermal utilization. The first part of the power supply is for the systems own output power supply, and the second part is for generating thermal energy. The two separate parts can be controlled and monitored respectively through the control circuits and the touch screens. The experimental results show that the system can generate 691 kWh electric energy and 3047.8 kWh thermal energy each year under normal working conditions. The efficiency of the proposed movable hybrid PVT system is calculated to be approximately 42.82% using the revised equations that are proposed in this paper. Therefore, the movable hybrid PVT system can meet the daily demands of hot water and electricity power in remote areas or islands and other non-grid areas. It also can be used to conduct experiment tests for the PVT system.
UT WOS:000400065000096
ER

PT J
AU Zhu, YM
   Lan, JL
   Du, YP
   Yang, T
   Yu, HR
   Liang, T
   Lv, XB
   Cheng, CJ
   Ji, JY
AF Zhu, Yanmei
   Lan, Jiali
   Du, Yuping
   Yang, Tao
   Yu, Hairong
   Liang, Ting
   Lv, Xingbin
   Cheng, Changjing
   Ji, Junyi
TI Simultaneous solar-driven steam and electricity generation by CNT/
   Zn2+-intercalated graphene oxide membranes
DE Graphene oxide membranes; Solar-driven interfacial evaporation;
   Thermoelectric generation; Wastewater purification; Desalination
ID LAYER
AB Solar-driven interfacial evaporation and thermoelectric cogeneration technologies, with their sustainability and high efficiency, offer innovative solutions to address freshwater and energy shortages. Graphene oxide (GO) membranes are favorable for solar energy absorption, but the non-full-spectrum absorption ability limits their energy efficiency. Herein, a high photothermal conversion composite membrane is employed via an environmentally friendly static deposition method, which consists of Zn2+ crosslinked carbonylated single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWCNTs-COOH) intercalated into GO interlayer (GO-Zn-CNTx). By adjusting SWCNTs-COOH content, the light-trapping effect and interlayer micro-nano structure of GO-Zn-CNTx membranes are optimized, achieving synergistic improvement in light absorption and evaporation property. Under 1 solar irradiation, GO-Zn-CNT40 reaches an evaporation rate and efficiency of 1.77 kg m-2 h-1 and 92.47%. Moreover, the membrane demonstrates excellent cyclic stability. Even after 10 cycles, its evaporation rate remains above 1.50 kg m-2 h-1. In addition, through the combination of this membrane with a sustainable thermoelectric module, a thermoelectric co-generation system (TCS) is developed to obtain an output voltage of 120 mV under 1 solar light, enabling waste heat recovery. In outdoor tests, the system can produce 4.3 L m-2 d-1 freshwater with a maximum voltage reaching 57 mV. This study presents a TCS that achieves the cogeneration of fresh water and electricity, providing a potential solution for freshwater and power supply in remote areas, with promising applications in green and sustainable development.
UT WOS:001522593400020
ER

PT J
AU Xia, Y
   Wu, J
   Shi, MJ
   Wang, SY
   Zhang, ZY
AF Xia Yan
   Wu Jie
   Shi Minjun
   Wang Shouyang
   Zhang Zhuoying
TI China's regional imbalance in electricity demand, power and water
   pricing- From the perspective of electricity-related virtual water
   transmission
DE Electricity -related virtual water (VW); Invisible imbalance; External
   costs; Electricity pricing reforms
ID ENERGY-WATER; INPUT-OUTPUT; GENERATION; NEXUS; VULNERABILITY; SCENARIOS;
   SYSTEM
AB This paper investigates the linkage between regional electricity pricing and water resources based on an accounting of the electricity-related virtual water (VW) transmissions in the framework of interregional input-output model. This study finds out that the water resource conditions of the provinces with scarce water resources but rich energy resources are worsening due to power generation and thus the power generation's impacts on water resources in these regions should be seriously addressed across its entire life cycle. This study confirms the coexistence of the transmission of low-priced electricity to the regions with higher electricity prices and the hidden transmission of high-priced water resources to the regions with rich water resource endowment and lower water prices through electricity-related VW trans-missions, which can aggravate the "invisible imbalance" of the spatial allocation of water resources. This study also emphasizes that China's regional electricity pricing mechanisms should fully involve the external costs of water to stimulate energy enterprises' willingness to control water use. The results of this study can provide scientific references for joint management of water and energy, and thus are conducive to policy formulations relevant to electricity pricing reforms in China. (c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000853695300003
ER

PT J
AU Ishaq, H
   Dincer, I
AF Ishaq, H.
   Dincer, I.
TI Investigation of an integrated system with industrial thermal management
   options for carbon emission reduction and hydrogen and ammonia
   production
DE Hydrogen production; Thermal management; Cu-Cl cycle; Ammonia synthesis;
   CO2 emission; Energy efficiency
ID HEAT-RECOVERY; FOSSIL-FUELS; ASH SLAG; WASTE; SEPARATION; STORAGE;
   EXERGY
AB A new integrated energy system employing the cement slag waste heat is uniquely proposed in this study. The core focus of the proposed system is to generate clean hydrogen thermochemically and convert it into ammonia. The designed system consists of the copper chlorine (Cu-Cl) cycle, a cryogenic air separation unit and a steam Rankine cycle while the useful commodities produced by the proposed system are hydrogen, ammonia, oxygen, hot water and electricity. A CO2 emission analysis is also conducted to calculate the emissions which can be avoided by recovering this waste heat. The Aspen Plus simulation software is utilized to model and simulate the proposed integrated system. A thermochemical water splitting process is incorporated into the system for hydrogen production. The cryogenic air separation unit is integrated in order to separate nitrogen from the air. This proposed system also reduces the environmental effects of the flue gas emitted by the cement industry. Multiple parametric studies are performed to investigate the system performance by varying operating conditions and state properties. The energy analysis is implemented on each component of the designed system. The overall energy efficiency of the system is concluded as 30.1%. The amount of CO2 emissions which can be avoided by utilizing this waste heat is 29.64 ktonne/5 years. (C) 2019 Hydrogen Energy Publications LLC. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000470051300008
ER

PT J
AU Wakode, HB
   Baier, K
   Jha, R
   Azzam, R
AF Wakode, Hemant Balwant
   Baier, Klaus
   Jha, Ramakar
   Azzam, Rafig
TI Impact of urbanization on groundwater recharge and urban water balance
   for the city of Hyderabad, India
DE Groundwater recharge; Urban water balance; SCS Curve Number (CN); Urban
   recharge from leakage; Hyderabad
ID LAND-USE; VULNERABILITY; GUANGZHOU
AB Groundwater recharge processes in an urban area are different than in non-urban areas. There are various new components that must be considered in the case of urban groundwater recharge in addition to the natural recharge from precipitation. These various components are estimated in this study based on the water balance equation for the Hyderabad city of India. Initially, urban recharge components including leakages from water supply network and sewage networks were calculated. To estimate the natural recharge from precipitation, actual evapotranspiration and surface runoff were estimated using remote sensing and GIS techniques. Results indicated that the urban recharge component of groundwater was more than ten times greater than the natural recharge. The net urban recharge component of groundwater was estimated to be approximately 568 mm yr(-1) and the natural recharge component was observed to be 53 mm yr(-1). Water inflow and outflow components were also estimated to provide the complete scenario of the total urban water balance of Hyderabad. This analysis has provided the information regarding the extent and intensity of percolation of urban contaminants into the aquifer. (C) 2018 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation and China Water and Power Press.
UT WOS:000430727100006
ER

PT J
AU Najafi, J
   Peiravi, A
   Anvari-Moghaddam, A
AF Najafi, Javad
   Peiravi, Ali
   Anvari-Moghaddam, Amjad
TI Enhancing Integrated Power and Water Distribution Networks Seismic
   Resilience Leveraging Microgrids
DE earthquake; power distribution network; resilience improvement planning;
   water distribution network; microgrid
ID DISTRIBUTION-SYSTEMS; DESIGN
AB An earthquake, as one of the natural disasters, can damage vital infrastructures including the power distribution network (PDN) and water distribution network (WDN). The dependency of WDN on PDN is the other challenge that can be highlighted after the earthquake. In this paper, the resilience improvement planning of integrated PDN and WDN against earthquakes is solved through stochastic programming. Power lines and substation hardening in PDN and water pipes rehabilitation with better material are the candidate strategies to minimize the expected inaccessibility value of loads to power and water as the resilience index and to minimize the cost of strategies. The proposed model is tested on the modified IEEE 33-bus PDN with a designed WDN and its performance is evaluated under different cases where the impacts of using distributed generations (DG) in PDN, equipping the water pumps to back-up generators, and the value of loads accessibility to water on the system resilience are investigated.
UT WOS:000523751400014
ER

PT C
AU Elbazurov, AR
   Titova, GR
AF Elbazurov, A. R.
   Titova, G. R.
BE Radionov, AA
   Karandaev, AS
TI Renewable Sources of Energy for Efficient Development of Electricity
   Supplies for Agriculture in Chechen Republic
DE Renewable sources of energy; Agriculture; Power
AB Nowadays the industry and economy of the Chechen Republic are at the stage of recovery growth. Over the last years electric energy consumption has been growing in the region. But the energy system of the Chechen Republic lacks supply as there is no electrical generation except the Kokadoyskaya small water power plant on the Argun River. The lack of power in the energy system of the Chechen Republic is covered by the power flow from the neighboring energy systems which, in its turn, leads to the loss in capacity. After the events which took place in the Republic from 1994 to 2000 the energy system hasn't been restored yet. The factors mentioned above hold back the development of the region with the unique environmental conditions. Nowadays the utilization of renewable energy sources such as wind and solar energy must be the strategic goal for the economic development of the Chechen Republic, especially its agriculture.
UT WOS:000675525300050
ER

PT J
AU Sengupta, MK
   Sawalha, MF
   Ohira, SI
   Idowu, AD
   Dasgupta, PK
AF Sengupta, Mrinal K.
   Sawalha, Maather F.
   Ohira, Shin-Ichi
   Idowu, Ademola D.
   Dasgupta, Purnendu K.
TI Green Analyzer for the Measurement of Total Arsenic in Drinking Water:
   Electrochemical Reduction of Arsenate to Arsine and Gas Phase
   Chemiluminescence with Ozone
ID ATOMIC FLUORESCENCE SPECTROMETRY; IN-SITU CONCENTRATION; HYDRIDE
   GENERATION; SAMPLE-INTRODUCTION; ABSORPTION-SPECTROMETRY;
   NATURAL-WATERS; KIT; OPTIMIZATION; GROUNDWATER; RELIABILITY
AB We describe matrix-isolated, reaction chemistry based measurement of arsenic in water down to submicrograms per liter levels in a system that requires only air, water, electricity, and dilute sulfuric acid, the bulk of the latter being recycled. Gas phase chemiluminescence (GPCL) measurement of arsenic is made in an automated batch system with arsenic in situ electroreduced to arsine that is reacted with ozone to emit light. The ozone is generated from oxygen that is simultaneously anodically produced. Of 22 different electrode materials studied, graphite was chosen as the cathode. As(V) is reduced much less efficiently to AsH3 than As(III). Prereducing all As to As(III) is difficult in the field and tedious. Oxidizing all As to As(V) is simple (e.g., with NaOCl) but greatly reduces subsequent conversion to AsH3 and hence sensitivity. The rate of the AsH3-O-3 GPCL reaction and hence signal intensity increases with [O-3]. Using oxygen to feed the ozonizer produces higher (O-3) and substantial signal enhancement. This makes it practical to measure all arsenic as As(V). The system exhibits an LOD (S/N = 3) for total arsenic as As(V) of 0.36 mu g/L (5 mL sample). Comparison of total As results in native and spiked water samples with those from inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICPMS) and other techniques show high correlation (r(2) = 0.9999) and near unity slopes.
UT WOS:000277213400017
ER

PT J
AU Magoua, JJ
   Wang, F
   Li, N
AF Magoua, Joseph Jonathan
   Wang, Fei
   Li, Nan
TI High level architecture-based framework for modeling interdependent
   critical infrastructure systems
DE Critical infrastructure system; High level architecture; Co-simulation;
   Interoperability; Interdependency; Domain knowledge; Systemic
   heterogeneity
ID SIMULATION; HLA; INTEROPERABILITY; RESILIENCE; DESIGN; WATER; POWER
AB Interdependencies among urban critical infrastructure systems (CISs) significantly impact the reliability and performance of CISs and the resilience of modern societies. Although several approaches exist for modeling interdependent CISs and studying their behavior, models developed in previous studies often fail to incorporate CIS domain knowledge, capture systemic heterogeneities among the CISs, and accurately model CISs interdependencies. Consequently, existing models have a limited ability to simulate interdependent CISs with sufficient detail and accuracy. To address these limitations, this study proposes a high-level architecture (HLA)-based framework for modeling interdependent CISs that can leverage and integrate well-tested practices, knowledge, data and simulation tools accumulated over years of wide usage in various CIS domains. The framework provides a methodology for co-simulating heterogeneous fine-grained CIS domain-specific models and modeling complex interactions between them and with their external environments, hence reproducing with high fidelity the complex coupled systems. A case study of two interdependent power and water systems was conducted, which demonstrated the efficacy of the proposed framework. Simulation results revealed that the HLA-based CISs model could capture the heterogeneous behaviors of the CISs and reveal a variety of failure-induced system vulnerabilities and feedback loops which may not be observable when using other existing modeling approaches.
UT WOS:000792917100002
ER

PT C
AU Zameer, A
   Pandow, BA
   Singh, B
AF Zameer, Anjum
   Pandow, Bilal Ahmad
   Singh, Baldev
BE Khatri, SK
   Kapur, RK
   Rana, A
   Singh, S
   Kapur, PK
TI Economic Hurdle for Implementation of Cloud Computing in Higher
   Education in Sultanate of Oman
DE Cloud Computing; Implementation; Higher Education; Economy
AB Cloud computing is a buzz word in the 21st century that promises to provide computing as a utility service like electricity, water and internet. Due to growing demand of computing services in organizations IT world has witnessed extensive deployment of information systems, servers, networks and related technologies during past several decades. As the complexity of services has increased, the management cost, administrative overhead, availability and reliability have become key areas of concern. Moreover, the recurring cost on software and hardware is one more significant reason for organizations especially education institutions to think of an alternative. Cloud Computing provides a suitable solution to many of the aforementioned problems. However, there are reservations in organizations related to the security and privacy that are associated with cloud infrastructures. Implementation of a private cloud in an educational establishment can yield enormous benefits not only to students and faculty members but to all the stakeholders of the establishment. As private clouds are mostly in-house maintained so there are much lesser concerns related to the security and privacy as also analyzed that very few higher educational establishments all over the world have implemented private clouds. Although private clouds for higher educational establishments can be very beneficial, the possible reasons for its less implementation is an important question that needs to be explained. This paper is an effort in this direction to analyze the economic barriers that effect and hamper the implementation of private clouds in higher education institutions in Sultanate of Oman.
UT WOS:000428140500044
ER

PT C
AU Alhusin, MO
   Sahoo, A
   Nikolakakos, I
   Alhammadi, H
   Alsahi, A
   Alhammadi, M
AF Alhusin, Mohammed Omer
   Sahoo, Animesh
   Nikolakakos, Iraklis
   Alhammadi, Hassan
   Alsahi, Ahmed
   Alhammadi, Mohamed
GP IEEE
TI Weather and Seasonal Effects on Medium Voltage Underground Cable Joint
   Failures
DE Medium Voltage; Underground Cable Joints; Weather; Seasonality;
   Clusters; Prediction Model; Machine learning
AB In urban regions, where distribution electrical networks tend to rely highly on underground cables, operational reliability indices and maintenance costs strongly depend on the associated cable joint failure rates. As witnessed over the years, climate change has been increasingly contributing to such failures. Based on the field experience compiled systematically by Dubai Electricity & Water Authority distribution networks, this paper studies the seasonal patterns and the impact of various weather conditions on medium voltage underground cable joint failure rates. Among a list of commonly reported weather parameters, the most relevant of them are selected in terms of their impact on cable joint failures. Then, failure data are clustered according to the prominent features and the relative positions of the clusters representing the criticality of the corresponding weather conditions on the underground cable systems, which can be further quantified by predictions on failure rates. The predictive models use historical failure rates combined with the weather data to estimate future failure rates. Then, analyzing the performance of four different machine learning models and assessing the relationship between prediction errors and weather events, we extract useful insights for integrating weather and seasonal data in distribution system operation and planning procedures. One novel aspect of this study lies in geographical area (Middle East) and environmental conditions pertinent to the distribution network, as opposed to previous studies representing European countries and climate zones. Moreover, this work introduces a methodology to assess the association between rainfalls and cable joint failure rates.
UT WOS:000861373200057
ER

PT J
AU Ansari, M
   Beitollahi, A
   Ahmadi, P
   Rezaie, B
AF Ansari, Mehran
   Beitollahi, Armin
   Ahmadi, Pouria
   Rezaie, Behnaz
TI A sustainable exergy model for energy-water nexus in the hot regions:
   integrated combined heat, power and water desalination systems
DE Integrated combined power plant; Gas turbine; Heat recovery; Absorption
   chiller; Genetic algorithm optimization; Double-effect desalination
ID GAS-TURBINE; MULTICRITERIA OPTIMIZATION; COOLING SYSTEMS; GENERATION
AB Water scarcity is a worldwide concern for Earth citizens. Finding new methods for water concentration is essential for the extension of life. The water issue is more intense in the regions with a warm to the tropical environment. Considering the cooling demand of these regions, which consequently requires excess energy to satisfy the cooling load, having a thermal system to support three concerns of the water, cooling, and power would be the key for the warm/hot weather areas. In the present study, a novel model by integration of gas turbine power cycle with a solar parabolic collector, a steam turbine, heat recovery, steam generator, multi-effect desalination, and absorption chiller is proposed. The suggested model is optimized through developing a comprehensive multi-objective function to maximize the exergy efficiency and minimize the cost. Using the genetic algorithm method, the model is optimized based on six design parameters such as condenser pressure, number of solar parabolic through collector rows, gas turbine and steam turbine inlet temperature, high and low pressure, high- and low-pressure pinch points. The final optimal design point of this cycle enables the overall exergy efficiency of 36.16% and 188.43 $ h(-1) of the total cost rate value; also, this integrated energy system provides the net electrical generation of 5.18 MW and the cooling load rate of 406.18 KW and generates 2.57 kg s(-1) of desalinated water. In this novel cycle solar energy is used for preheating the inflow of the combustion chamber. A dual pressure heat recovery exploits thermal energy of flue gas, which runs both desalination and multi-effect absorption system and circulates in simultaneous water and cooling load generation. Finally, by utilizing the genetic 1 algorithm, the optimal system is developed.
UT WOS:000552155500002
ER

PT J
AU Bronfman, NC
   Cisternas, PC
   López-Vázquez, E
   de la Maza, C
   Oyanedel, JC
AF Bronfman, Nicolas C.
   Cisternas, Pamela C.
   Lopez-Vazquez, Esperanza
   de la Maza, Cristobal
   Carlos Oyanedel, Juan
TI Understanding Attitudes and Pro-Environmental Behaviors in a Chilean
   Community
DE environmental behavior; pro-environmental behavior; environmental
   management
ID PLANNED BEHAVIOR; PROENVIRONMENTAL BEHAVIOR; GENDER; VALUES; MODEL;
   BASES
AB Environmental protection and restoration are some of the major challenges faced by our society. To address this problem, it is fundamental to understand pro-environmental behaviors in the population, as well as the factors that determine them. There are, however, very few studies conducted in Latin America that are focused in understanding the environmental behavior of its citizens. The main goal of this research was to study the environmental behaviors of a Chilean community and identify the factors that determine them. To that end, a diverse set of environmental behaviors (power and water conservation, environmentally-aware consumer behavior, biodiversity protection, rational automobile use and ecological waste management) and sociodemographic and attitudinal factorsbased on the VBN modelwere evaluated. Survey data was obtained from a statistically representative sample (N = 1537) in Santiago, Chile. Our results suggest that several participants displayed tendencies that favor more responsible environmental behaviors, with high environmental concern, and demonstrating their ample awareness of the consequences of failing to protect the environment. Nevertheless, the highest average scores of environmental behavior were related to low cost behaviors and those that imposed the fewest behavioral restrictions. In global terms, we concluded that the youngest subjects in the lowest socioeconomic group obtained the lowest scores across the pro-environmental behavior spectrum.
UT WOS:000364328300056
ER

PT J
AU Upadhyay, D
   Ghosh, S
   Ohno, H
   Zaman, M
   Sampalli, S
AF Upadhyay, Darshana
   Ghosh, Sagarika
   Ohno, Hiroyuki
   Zaman, Marzia
   Sampalli, Srinivas
TI Securing industrial control systems: Developing a SCADA/IoT test bench
   and evaluating lightweight cipher performance on hardware simulator
DE SCADA; ICSs; IoT; Hardware test bench; Cyber-attacks; Lightweight
   cipher; Raspberry Pi; Modbus; MQTT; VTSCADA
ID KEY MANAGEMENT ARCHITECTURE; INTRUSION DETECTION; CYBER SECURITY;
   ISSUES; MODEL
AB This paper addresses the critical need for enhancing security in Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) networks within Industrial Control Systems (ICSs) to protect the industrial processes from cyberattacks. The purpose of our work is to propose and evaluate lightweight security measures to safeguard critical infrastructure resources. The scope of our effort involves simulating a secure SCADA/IoT-based hardware test bench for ICSs, utilizing Modbus and MQTT communication protocols. Through case studies in remote servo motor control, water distribution systems, and power system voltage level indicators, vulnerabilities such as Denial of Service (DoS) and Man-in-The-Middle (MiTM) attacks are identified, and security recommendations are provided. To execute our work, we deploy lightweight ciphers such as Prime Counter & Hash Chaining (PCHC) and Ascon algorithm with Compression Rate (ACR) for secure information exchange between the plant floor and the control center. Evaluation of these ciphers on Raspberry Pi focuses on execution speed and memory utilization. Additionally, a comparison with the AGA-12 protocol standard for SCADA networks is conducted to underscore the efficacy of the proposed security measures. Our findings include the identification of SCADA network vulnerabilities and the proposal of lightweight security measures to mitigate risks. Performance evaluation of the proposed ciphers on Raspberry Pi demonstrates their effectiveness, emphasizing the importance of deploying such measures to ensure resilience against cyber threats in SCADA environments.
UT WOS:001312913700001
ER

PT J
AU Farrokhi, M
   Neyestani, F
   Kazemi-Beydokhti, A
   Darzi, HH
AF Farrokhi, Mahmoud
   Neyestani, Fatemeh
   Kazemi-Beydokhti, Amin
   Darzi, Hamid Heydarzadeh
TI Simulation and Techno-Economic Analysis of the Integration of a Combined
   Heat and Power System in a Flare Gas Recovery Unit - Case Study: Tabriz
   Oil Refining Company (Northwest Iran)
DE Combined heat and power; Rankin cycle; Flare gas recovery; ASPEN-HYSYS;
   Technoeconomic analysis
ID MICRO-COMBINED-HEAT; OPTIMIZATION; DESIGN
AB Combined Heat and Power (CHP) systems can reduce energy waste in various industries including oil, gas, and petrochemical plants. In this research, the feasibility of the establishment of a CHP system in A Flare Gas Recovery (FGR) unit is studied. The integration of CHP system in FGR unit is investigated from the economic, technical, and environmental viewpoints. The FGR unit of Tabriz Oil Refining Company which is located in northwest Iran is considered as a case study. No such an integration has been investigated previously. The simulation of the proposed system is performed using ASPEN-HYSYS software. Rankine cycle is considered for the combined production of heat and power and water is utilized as the Rankine cycle working fluid. The fuel needed by the CHP system is supplied from the FGR unit. In order to more utilization of the fuel energy, the thermal energy of furnace flue gases is recovered through a regenerator heat exchanger. The simulation results showed that the proposed system can generate about 4 MW of electrical power and 16 MW of thermal power corresponding to 15.42% and 77.63% electrical and thermal efficiencies, respectively. Moreover, 4,532 kg/h of hot steam with a temperature of 381.4 C is produced by utilizing the furnace flue gases' thermal energy. The results of this study showed a promising performance for the integration of a CHP system in FGR unit of Tabriz Oil Refining Company. The present study may be a step forward towards the efficient use of energy sources. Future works in this field can be done with a view to the practical integration of CHP systems in FGR units.
UT WOS:001202054900001
ER

PT J
AU Araghi, AH
   Khiadani, M
   Lucas, G
   Hooman, K
AF Araghi, A. Hosseini
   Khiadani, M.
   Lucas, G.
   Hooman, K.
TI Performance analysis of a low pressure discharge thermal energy combined
   desalination unit
DE Low temperature thermal desalination (LTTD); Low Pressure-Discharge
   Thermal Energy Combined Desalination (LP-DTECD); Cogeneration; Eductor;
   Rankin cycle and exergitic efficiency
AB This study proposes a novel steam recovery cogeneration system, which is based on the low temperature thermal desalination (LTTD) system and named Low Pressure-Discharge Thermal Energy Combined Desalination (LP-DTECD). This technology includes open water and closed power cycles. Utilizing discharged thermal energy from a waste steam in an ammonia plant to cogenerate water and power is one significant of this system. Also, using an eductor instead of a steam jet ejector or a rotary vacuum pump to save valuable steam and make a convenient operation is another merit of the proposed technology. The mixture of NH3-H2O is utilised as working fluid for its closed Rankin cycle. A 28% improvement in the exergy flow was noted as in comparison with the energy waste of the base case. Utilising the LP-DTECD system is economical and demonstrates an improved CO2 emission reduction by 7%. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000348256000013
ER

PT J
AU Darwish, MA
AF Darwish, M. A.
TI Prospect of using alternative energy for power and desalted water
   productions in Kuwait
DE alternative energy; desalination; electric power; solar energy; combined
   gas/steam power plants; nuclear power plants; wind energy; levelized
   energy cost; dispatchability; photovoltaic; concentrated solar power
AB Extensive research is conducted in Kuwait to apply renewable energy (RE) for electric power (EP) generation. The Kuwaiti Ministry of Electricity and Water (MEW) formed a committee to study the introduction of solar energy to generate EP. Meanwhile, the government formed a committee to take the necessary steps to build the first nuclear power plant (NPP) for EP production and desalting seawater. This study addresses the technical and economical aspects of using NPP and RE in generating EP in Kuwait in comparison with presently used combined cycle stations which are operated with natural gas or oil fuel. The results of this study indicate that installing wind energy (WE) or solar cells photovoltaic solar cells (PV) power plant (PP) cannot be considered a capacity addition. Capacity addition is required to handle the ever increasing peak load. The WE and PV PPs are primarily fuel savers for the existing fossil fuel plants. The intermittent and the non-dispatchable nature of the WE and PV plants make them unable to generate consistent output like fuel-fired PPs. Their output should be taken by the grid and this decreases the load on the operating dispatchable PPs and thus reduces their fuel consumption. Among the thermal solar concentrating PP options (solar tower, solar dish with Stirling engine, and parabolic trough mirrors), the ones using parabolic trough are the only solar type PP that have reached commercial maturity with well-proven records of reliability and availability. This type of PP should be augmented with supplementary fossil fuel or thermal storage system to become a dispatch-able plant.
UT WOS:000300037300025
ER

PT C
AU Gubiani, R
   Pergher, G
   Mainardis, M
AF Gubiani, Rino
   Pergher, Gianfranco
   Mainardis, Matia
GP IEEE
TI The winery in a perspective of sustainability: the parameters to be
   measured and their reliability
DE winery; electricity consumption; sustainability; water consumption
AB In recent years, the entire agricultural and agri-food sector, and in particular the wine sector, has been comparing and adapting to the issue of environmental sustainability, both within the vineyard and within the winery. In this context, various projects and methodologies have been developed to measure the environmental sustainability of the wine sector as a whole (VIVA project). To enter into this perspective, however, the wineries must equip themselves with very complex parameter measurement systems as well as data processing and currently only few of them are able to do so, as most wineries do not have the equipment both at the instrumentation and software level and also do not possess the required expertise. In order to verify the measurement and size of some cellar parameters related to sustainability, a survey was carried out in the area of Friuli Venezia Giulia and Eastern Veneto.
   The results showed that electricity consumption in Wh/l of produced wine varies considerably depending on the average temperature during the harvesting period and, in the specific case of a small-medium sized Friulian winery (about 2,000 hl/year of wine), the performance indicator shows consumption of around 250-350 Wh/l. As for the consumption of water in the cellar, blue water consumption from the aqueduct in general is around a value of 4 liters of water per liter of produced wine. In the three wineries that take part in the VIVA project, the value is 2.5 liters of water/liter of wine (medium-large wineries). From the analysis it can be observed that water and electricity consumption are high but very variable depending on the climate, place, type of wine, type of cellar.
UT WOS:000794147000065
ER

PT J
AU Zhou, WX
   Li, CJ
   Zhao, WW
   Stringer, LC
   Fu, BJ
AF Zhou, Wenxin
   Li, Changjia
   Zhao, Wenwu
   Stringer, Lindsay C.
   Fu, Bojie
TI Spatial distributions of soil nutrients affected by land use, topography
   and their interactions, in the Loess Plateau of China
DE Soil organic carbon; Total nitrogen; Total phosphorus; Slope position;
   Vegetation restoration
ID ORGANIC-CARBON SEQUESTRATION; SLOPE POSITION; CLIMATE-CHANGE; HILLY
   AREA; WATER SCARCITY; COVER CHANGES; EROSION; PHOSPHORUS; DYNAMICS;
   REGIONS
AB Soil nutrient availability and their spatial distributions are strongly related to land use and landscape morphology. This study aims to address the knowledge gap regarding the interaction between these factors and the underlying mechanisms. We selected five land uses (grassland with Artemisia gmelinii, woodland with Robinia pseudoacacia, shrubland with Caragana korshinskii and Hippophae rhamnoides, and apple orchard with Malus pumila) and nine slope positions across hillslopes in the Loess Plateau, China, to investigate their combined effects on the contents and stocks of soil organic carbon (SOC), total nitrogen (TN) and total phosphorus (TP). Parametric and non-parametric statistical tests were conducted to determine the significant differences in the means or the medians of the soil nutrient variables. Results showed that the SOC and TN contents of shrubland with Caragana korshinskii were statistically significantly greater than those of the grassland (p < 0.05). SOC and TN contents generally decreased from the upper slope to the middle slope, and to the foot slope for the grassland, woodland and shrublands, and on the contrary, an increasing trend from the upper slope, to the middle slope, and to the foot slope was identified for the apple orchard. This study highlights that land use, slope position and their interaction have significant effects on the spatial distributions of soil nutrients. It provides essential empirical evidence for the identification of the optimal vegetation type and slope positions in land management and vegetation restoration activities. (c) 2023 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
UT WOS:001225699200001
ER

PT J
AU Hu, LM
   Hong, Y
   Liu, JL
   Wang, ZY
   Wang, XY
   Gao, YJ
AF Hu, Liming
   Hong, Yu
   Liu, Jiale
   Wang, Zeyuan
   Wang, Xiaoyan
   Gao, Yujia
TI Multifunctional treatment of food waste liquefied liquid by
   algal-bacterial microbial fuel cells: water, electricity and biomass
   nexus and mechanism profiling
DE Algae-bacteria microbial fuel cell; Food waste liquefied liquid;
   Electricity production; Biomass energy recovery; Functional microbial
   synergy
ID AZO-DYE; GENERATION; REMOVAL; PERFORMANCE; SYSTEMS; DECOLORIZATION;
   SHEWANELLA; NUTRIENT; ORGANICS; OXYGEN
AB Food waste is rich in organic matter, which has the potential for resource energy conversion and carbon reduction through microbial fuel cells after liquefaction. In this study, different anode microorganisms were used to construct an algae-bacteria microbial fuel cell (ABMFC). The efficiency and mechanism of treatment and simultaneous energy recovery of food waste liquefied liquid with different modified anodes and bacterial inoculum were also investigated. The results showed that the treatment efficiency and biomass production efficiency were higher and the start-up time was shorter when the system was constructed with liquefied liquidenriched bacteria as the anode inoculum in synergy with microalgae. By loading riboflavin and humic acid on the anode surface, the output voltage and electric power density of the system were increased to 0.240 V, 0.930 f 0.01 W/m3 and 0.300 V, 1.500 f 0.03 W/m3, respectively. Meanwhile, the organic matter removal rate was increased to 93.08 % and 96.98 %, and the microalgae biomass yields reached 1.35 f 0.03 and 1.47 f 0.02 g/L. The results also showed that the COD removal, electric power density and microalgal biomass accumulation were higher when the bacteria and liquefied liquid were mixed in equal proportions than when the mixing ratios were 2:1 (16.93 %, 19.05 %, 50.00 %) and 1:2 (13.25 %, 17.28 %, 31.25 %). Based on microbiome analysis, ultrastructural and electrochemical characterization, it was demonstrated that the optimal performance ABMFC had a more complex electrode surface structure and excellent electrochemical activity. The synergistic effect of multiple functional microbial compositions, especially the electroproducing bacteria, was the key to the efficient operation of the system. By stacking through an advanced power management system and matching existing production equipment, it is possible to recover usable energy and resources from FWLL.
UT WOS:001547941200001
ER

PT J
AU She, XH
   Zhang, TT
   Peng, XD
   Wang, L
   Tong, LG
   Luo, YM
   Zhang, XS
   Ding, YL
AF She Xiaohui
   Zhang Tongtong
   Peng Xiaodong
   Wang Li
   Tong Lige
   Luo Yimo
   Zhang Xiaosong
   Ding Yulong
TI Liquid Air Energy Storage for Decentralized Micro Energy Networks with
   Combined Cooling, Heating, Hot Water and Power Supply
DE liquid air energy storage; cryogenic energy storage; micro energy grids;
   combined heating; cooling and power supply; heat pump
ID THERMODYNAMIC ANALYSIS; EXERGY RECOVERY; PERFORMANCE; SYSTEM; COLD;
   OPTIMIZATION; GENERATION; SELECTION; PLANT
AB Liquid air energy storage (LAES) has been regarded as a large-scale electrical storage technology. In this paper, we first investigate the performance of the current LAES (termed as a baseline LAES) over a far wider range of charging pressure (1 to 21 MPa). Our analyses show that the baseline LAES could achieve an electrical round trip efficiency (eRTE) above 60% at a high charging pressure of 19 MPa. The baseline LAES, however, produces a large amount of excess heat particularly at low charging pressures with the maximum occurred at similar to 1 MPa. Hence, the performance of the baseline LAES, especially at low charging pressures, is underestimated by only considering electrical energy in all the previous research. The performance of the baseline LAES with excess heat is then evaluated which gives a high eRTE even at lower charging pressures; the local maximum of 62% is achieved at similar to 4 MPa. As a result of the above, a hybrid LAES system is proposed to provide cooling, heating, hot water and power. To evaluate the performance of the hybrid LAES system, three performance indicators are considered: nominal-electrical round trip efficiency (neRTE), primary energy savings and avoided carbon dioxide emissions. Our results show that the hybrid LAES can achieve a high neRTE between 52% and 76%, with the maximum at similar to 5 MPa. For a given size of hybrid LAES (1 MWx8 h), the primary energy savings and avoided carbon dioxide emissions are up to 12.1 MWh and 2.3 ton, respectively. These new findings suggest, for the first time, that small-scale LAES systems could be best operated at lower charging pressures and the technologies have a great potential for applications in local decentralized micro energy networks.
UT WOS:000599050100003
ER

PT J
AU Yang, X
   Zhang, LY
   Hou, M
   Wu, F
   Ju, Y
AF Yang, Xing
   Zhang, Liyuan
   Hou, Miao
   Wu, Fang
   Ju, Yan
TI Tracing the evolution of soil conservation in China: A review of
   historical insights and modern practices
DE Soil conservation; Policy evolution; Governance mechanism; Stakeholder
   participation; Sustainable development
ID LOESS PLATEAU; WATER CONSERVATION; EROSION CONTROL; DEGRADATION;
   DISCHARGE; DYNAMICS; IMPACTS; REGION; DESIGN
AB Soil conservation is a critical environmental challenge faced by countries worldwide. This paper provides an innovative and comprehensive review of China's soil conservation journey, offering new insights into policy evolution, governance mechanisms, and stakeholder participation. Driven by severe soil erosion, land degradation, and the need to balance agricultural productivity with environmental sustainability, China's soil conservation efforts have progressed through three stages: the "Exploration Stage" (1950s-1980s), which developed key measures such as terracing, dams, and afforestation; the "Integrated Management Stage" (1980s-2000s), balancing soil conservation with socio-economic development; and the "Ecological Restoration and Sustainable Development Stage" (2000s-present), prioritizing ecological restoration and sustainable small watershed management. Since 2005, the coverage of soil conservation projects has expanded nationwide, including both government-led and privately funded construction projects. These efforts have substantially reduced soil erosion: the annual soil erosion area decreased by about 28 % (3.66 to 2.63 million km2), and the annual erosion volume declined by about 47% (11.24 to 5.94 billion tons) between 1985 and 2023. The analysis highlights that meaningful conservation outcomes typically require 10-20 years of sustained effort. Over this period, stakeholders have increasingly prioritized environmental protection, sustainable development, and technical inputs, with the public placing additional emphasis on the proper and transparent use of government funds. By examining both policy-and project-level footprints across the three stages, the findings underscore the importance of multi-faceted approaches that combine policy interventions, technological innovations, incentives, and public engagement, offering lessons for global soil conservation initiatives and adaptive strategies under emerging environmental challenges. (c) 2025 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
UT WOS:001839192800001
ER

PT J
AU Guo, WZ
   Luo, L
   Li, HW
   Wang, WL
   Bai, Y
AF Guo, Wenzhao
   Luo, Li
   Li, Hongwei
   Wang, Wenlong
   Bai, Yun
TI Runoff- and erosion-reducing effects of vegetation on the loess
   hillslopes of China under concentrated flow
DE Soil erosion; Concentrated runoff; China's grain for green project;
   Vegetation; Hydraulic parameters; Chinese loess plateau
ID SOIL-EROSION; OVERLAND-FLOW; SURFACE RUNOFF; WATER EROSION; SLOPE;
   DETACHMENT; PLATEAU; ROOTS; CONSTRUCTION; RESTORATION
AB Evaluating the effects of revegetation on runoff and erosion reduction is essential for studying soil and water conservation on the Loess Plateau after implementation of China's Grain for Green Project. However, quantifying the influence of revegetation on the erosion caused by concentrated runoff in extreme rainstorms is still challenging. To evaluate this influence, scouring-erosion experiments were implemented in situ on the vegetated hillslope plots (GR) and bare hillslope plots (CK). The runoff -reducing effects of grass (GRR) averaged 31%, 20% and 8%, and the erosion-reducing effects of grass (GER) averaged 93%, 95% and 93% on the 5 degrees-plots, 10 degrees-plots and 18 degrees-plots, respectively. The ratios of GRR to GER were 0.09-0.33, implying that the ability of vegetation to reduce erosion was greater than its ability to reduce runoff. The GRR and GER obviously decreased as the inflow rate increased, and the GRR decreased as the hillslope gradient increased, but there were no obvious differences in the GER between hillslope gradients. Vegetation could decrease the ability of the concentrated flow to carry and transport sediment and increase the energy consumption of the concentrated flow in response to hydraulic resistance. Vegetation also significantly reduced the degree of rill development. The degree of rill dissection on the GR (0.054-0.087 m2 m-2) was lower than that on the CK (0.061-0.184 m2 m-2). Our findings provide an essential reference for ecological environment and vegetation restoration on loess hillslopes.(c) 2022 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY -NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
UT WOS:000888322800001
ER

PT C
AU Wang, ZT
   Li, YG
   Li, SY
AF Wang, Zhitao
   Li, Yi-Guang
   Li, Shuying
GP ASME
TI PERFORMANCE SIMULATION OF 3-STAGE GAS TURBINE CHP PLANT FOR MARINE
   APPLICATIONS
ID ORGANIC RANKINE-CYCLE; WASTE HEAT-RECOVERY; FLUID SELECTION; ENGINE;
   ORC; SYSTEM; COGENERATION; ENERGY; POWER
AB Energy saving and environment become important issues in power and propulsion generation industry. One of such examples is the marine transportation where a lot of energy from consumed fuel is wasted in exhaust and emissions are produced in vessel propulsion systems. The focus of this research is to look at a typical marine propulsion system where gas turbines are the prime movers and to investigate the potentials of a novel 3-stage gas turbine combined heat and power (CHP) system for marine applications. Such a CHP system may include a topping gas turbine Brayton cycle, an intermediate water Rankine cycle (WRC), and a bottoming organic Rankine cycle (ORC). In the system, gas turbine is connected with a generator to produce electricity, water Rankine cycle produces superheated steam driving steam turbine for electricity generation and/or for heating, and organic Rankine cycle is used to produce electricity by recycling low temperature energy. A thermodynamic model for the 3-stage CHP system is established to simulate the performance of the system at different power demand operating conditions. The developed performance simulation system has been applied to a typical model vessel propulsion system application. Based on the simulated results, it is evident that compared with a conventional 2-stage CHP cycle where only gas turbine topping cycle and water Rankine bottoming cycle are included, the introduction of the organic Rankine cycle can increase the power output by about 7% and improve the cycle thermal efficiency by about 3.52%.
UT WOS:000384850100055
ER

PT J
AU Naseri, A
   Bidi, M
   Ahmadi, MH
AF Naseri, Ali
   Bidi, Mokhtar
   Ahmadi, Mohammad H.
TI Thermodynamic and exergy analysis of a hydrogen and permeate water
   production process by a solar-driven transcritical CO2 power
   cycle with liquefied natural gas heat sink
DE Flat plate collector; Transcritical CO2; Reverse osmosis; Electrolyzer;
   LNG
ID ORGANIC RANKINE-CYCLE; CARBON-DIOXIDE; SMALL-SCALE; ENERGY; SYSTEM;
   PERFORMANCE; OPTIMIZATION; FLUID
AB A novel solar power, water and hydrogen cogeneration plant with recovery of cryogenic energy is proposed in this paper to produce hydrogen and permeate water by gasification of Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG). A mathematical model is developed to simulate the system and an exergy and thermodynamic parametric analysis is carried out to investigate the effect of several thermodynamic parameters on overall system performance. A dynamic Reverse Osmosis (RO) desalination model is introduced to produce different permeate and feed water mass flow rates. By the results, about 26.8% of net produced power is recovered by a turbine locating in RO brine discharge. The exergy analysis showed that the maximum exergy is destructed by collectors and condenser, respectively. Also, among output streams, natural gas ejected by Natural Gas (NG) turbine has the maximum exergy output. Furthermore, CO2 turbine inlet pressure has an optimum value aimed to produce maximum production and net output power. The net output power, moreover, increases by rising the boiler and turbine inlet temperatures and NG inlet pressure, while it decreases by increasing condensation temperature. It is noteworthy that by increasing recovery ratio of RO unit, the permeate water production increases and hydrogen production rate decreases, by contrast. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000407655300108
ER

PT C
AU Hines, PDH
   Blumsack, S
   Schläpfer, M
AF Hines, Paul D. H.
   Blumsack, Seth
   Schlapfer, Markus
BE Bui, TX
   Sprague, R
TI When are decentralized infrastructure networks preferable to centralized
   ones?
ID COMMUNICATION
AB Many infrastructure networks, such as power, water, and natural gas systems, have similar properties governing flows. However, these systems have distinctly different sizes and topological structures. This paper seeks to understand how these different features can emerge from relatively simple design principles. Specifically, we work to understand the conditions under which it is optimal to build small decentralized network infrastructures, such as a microgrid, rather than centralized ones, such as a large high-voltage power system. While our method is simple it is useful in explaining why sometimes, but not always, it is economical to build large, interconnected networks and in other cases it is preferable to use smaller, distributed systems. The results indicate that there is not a single set of infrastructure cost conditions that cause a transition from centralized networks being optimal, to decentralized architectures. Instead, as capital costs increase network sizes decrease gradually, according to a power-law. And, as the value of reliability increases, network sizes increase abruptly-there is a threshold at which large, highly interconnected networks are preferable to decentralized ones.
UT WOS:000625875704049
ER

PT J
AU Khan, S
   Madnick, SE
AF Khan, Shaharyar
   Madnick, Stuart E.
TI Cybersafety: A System-Theoretic Approach to Identify
   Cyber-Vulnerabilities & Mitigation Requirements in Industrial Control
   Systems
DE Security; Hazards; Analytical models; Integrated circuits; Critical
   infrastructure; Computer security; Accidents; CPS security design;
   industrial control system; STAMP; system security; cyber-physical damage
ID SECURITY; SAFETY
AB Recent cyber-physical attacks, such as Stuxnet, Triton etc., have invoked an ominous realization about the vulnerability of critical infrastructure, including water, power and gas distribution systems. Traditional IT security-biased protection methods that focus on improving cyber hygiene are largely impotent in the face of targeted attacks by advanced cyber-adversaries. Thus, there is an urgent need to analyze the safety and security of critical infrastructure in a holistic fashion, leveraging the physics of the cyber-physical system. System-Theoretic Accident Model & Processes (STAMP) offers a powerful framework to analyze complex systems; hitherto, STAMP has been used extensively to perform safety analyses but an integrated safety and cybersecurity analysis of industrial control systems (ICS) has not been published. This paper uses the electrical generation and distribution system of an archetypal industrial facility to demonstrate the application of a STAMP-based method - called Cybersafety - to identify and mitigate cyber-vulnerabilities in ICS. The key contribution of this work is to differentiate the additional steps required to perform a holistic cybersecurity analysis for an ICS of significant size and complexity and to present the analysis in a structured format that can be emulated for larger systems with many interdependent subsystems.
UT WOS:000848265000032
ER

PT J
AU Nevrly, V
   Somplák, R
   Szásziová, L
   Pluskal, J
   Procházka, V
AF Nevrly, Vlastimir
   Somplak, Radovan
   Szasziova, Lenka
   Pluskal, Jaroslav
   Prochazka, Vit
TI Offshore Conceptual Plastic Waste Collection and Treatment Towards Clean
   Ocean
DE Clean ocean; Garbage patch; Plastic in the ocean; Waste treatment;
   Optimization; Plastic waste; Energy and material recovery
AB The recent social care about the concentration of plastics in the ocean arises with the necessity of developing solutions to this problem. Some projects are dealing with the technology of collection, however, the follow-up transfer onshore is not usually included in the solution. This study suggests designing a vessel with available waste treatment technologies that can use the waste to recover energy. Simultaneously, the technologic vessel has to regularly visit collectors and ports to supply produced commodities and crew. A mixed integer linear model is developed to find the optimal balance between capacities of considered technologies and also to simulate the voyage with all respective operations. Waste-to-Energy, pyrolysis, desalination, sorting and other mechanical processes are assumed onboard. The vessel is designed to utilize the produced energy and products onboard including heat generation, electricity, water, and oil. The evaluation of suitable technologies is realized through techno-economic models which are needed for all considered subsystems from the complex treatment chain. The analysis of project viability requires detailed multi-disciplinary data. The main output of the presented approach is sensitivity analysis for critical parameters, which gives greater insight into the issue and directs further research from a general level through the concept to refine the input data and boundary conditions of the task in the model. The Pacific Garbage Patch was chosen as the testing area for the case study. The presented approach enables to compare different ways of plastic processing.
   [GRAPHICS]
   .
UT WOS:000656379700001
ER

PT J
AU Yabe, T
   Ukkusuri, SV
AF Yabe, Takahiro
   Ukkusuri, Satish V.
TI Integrating information from heterogeneous networks on social media to
   predict post-disaster returning behavior
DE Human behavior; Disaster resilience; Social media; Networks; Machine
   learning
ID LOCATIONS
AB With the recent rise in frequency and intensity of severe disasters, increasing the resilience of urban systems is an urgent challenge. Local governments need to accurately predict the demand of public services such as gas, water and power after disasters in order to effectively allocate resources for recovery, and also to prevent secondary disasters. In practice, post-disaster surveys and interviews have been used to grasp the returning dynamics of evacuees. Here we propose a novel method for integrating information obtained from heterogeneous networks on social media that can be used to improve the predictability of returning behavior of evacuees after severe disasters. We validate our proposed method using a large Twitter dataset from Hurricane Sandy and verify that the model is capable of predicting 86% of the returning behavior of evacuees correctly, increasing the performance by 21% compared to conventional methods. Results imply that tweets posted near the individual's residential location and posts of online connected peers have significant marginal effect on predicting individuals' returning behavior. The proposed method and gained insights could help decision makers in various agencies to predict the demand of public services in affected regions immediately after the disaster, enabling them to plan effective and efficient infrastructure repairing strategies given time and budget constraints. (C) 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000468255300002
ER

PT J
AU Munir, MM
   Shakir, AS
   Rehman, HU
   Khan, NM
   Rashid, MU
   Tariq, MAUR
   Sarwar, MK
AF Munir, Muhammad Mohsin
   Shakir, Abdul Sattar
   Rehman, Habib-Ur
   Khan, Noor Muhammad
   Rashid, Muhammad Usman
   Tariq, Muhammad Atiq Ur Rehman
   Sarwar, Muhammad Kaleem
TI Simulation-Optimization of Tarbela Reservoir Operation to Enhance
   Multiple Benefits and to Achieve Sustainable Development Goals
DE operation; simulation; HEC-ResSim; reservoir; sediment; storage;
   sustainable
ID SEDIMENT MANAGEMENT; RELIABILITY; RIVER; VULNERABILITY; RESILIENCE;
   SYSTEMS; CLIMATE; MODEL
AB Pakistan's agriculture and economy rely heavily on the Tarbela Reservoir. The present storage capacity of Tarbela is 8.2 BCM and it has been depleted by more than 40% due to sedimentation since 1976. It also has had a 0.94 percent (0.134 BCM) decrease in gross reservoir capacity every year. Historically, the amount of sediment trapped in the Tarbela Reservoir during the period 1976-2020 was 198.5 million tonnes annually. Based on the current operation by the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA), the delta is expected to extend to 2.41 km from the dam in 2035. The reservoir will become a run-of-the-river reservoir with a gross storage capacity of 2.87 BCM. This rapid loss of storage capacity will significantly impact reservoir benefits while also putting turbine performance at risk due to abrasion. Slowing the sediment deposition phenomena by a flexible operational strategy is a worthwhile aim from the dam manager's viewpoint to achieve Sustainable Development Goals (i.e., poverty and hunger alleviation, clean affordable energy, protecting ecosystem etc.). Therefore, for the safe and long-term operation of the turbines, the existing Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) adopted by WAPDA need to be appraised to delineate their impact on future optimized operations. The aspect of considering static SOPs on the whole period of reservoir operation has not been attempted earlier. The Tarbela Reservoir was selected as a case study to enhance the existing reservoir operation. The methodology relies upon the use of a 1-D sediment transport model in HEC-RAS to study the impact of the operational strategy on sedimentation. In conjunction, the existing reservoir operation of Tarbela was modelled in HEC-ResSim using its physical, operational, and 10-daily time-series data for simulation of releases and hydropower benefits based on a revised elevation-capacity curve for sedimentation. After calibration and validation, the model was applied to predict future reservoir operation impacts on a 5-year basis from 2025 to 2035 for determining storage capacity, irrigation releases, power production and energy generation. It was predicted that as the storage capacity of the reservoir is depleted (by application of the WAPDA current SOPs in future years), the irrigation releases would be increased in the Kharif season (April-September) by 7% and decreased by 50% in the Rabi season (October-March) with a corresponding increase in power generation by 4% and decrease by 37%, respectively, and the average annual energy generation would be decreased by 6.5%. The results showed that a gradual increase in the minimum operating level will slow down delta movement but it will reduce irrigation releases at times of high demand. The findings may assist water managers to improve the Tarbela Reservoir operation to achieve sustainable development goals and to attain societal future benefits.
UT WOS:000845215900001
ER

PT J
AU Han, J
   Han, J
   Yu, S
AF Han, Jaeyoung
   Han, Jaesu
   Yu, Sangseok
TI Investigation of FCVs durability under driving cycles using a
   model-based approach
DE Fuel cell vehicles; Driving cycles; Durability; Degradation; PEMFC;
   Aging model
ID ELECTROLYTE FUEL-CELL; PERFORMANCE; MEMBRANE; REDUCTION; RELIABILITY;
   PREDICTION; PETROLEUM; STACK
AB The stack degradation of a fuel cell system is a critical factor in ensuring the stack performance and reliability of a fuel cell vehicle (FCV). In particular, the stack degradation depends strongly on the proton-conductive ability in the membrane during vehicle operating. This study presents an effective degradation FCV model along with a degradation predictive model for various driving cycles. The stack degradation is indicative of the water content term, which is strongly dependent on the membrane conductivity term. The stack degradation model was designed using design of experiment (DoE), and the designed fuel-cell model is validated using the experimental data. The proposed fuel cell model is also integrated into a dynamic vehicle model. The FCV model is simulated to investigate its transient behaviors during various driving cycles. The transient responses of the vehicle speed, demanded fuel cell power, and water content are properly captured. To evaluate the degradation rate of the FCV under various driving cycles, the scenarios of time and distance are applied, and the tradeoffs are investigated based on the degradation of the FCV model over a range of durations and current densities. For a low running distance, an urban dynamometer driving schedule is more effective than the other cycles. Further, with an increase in the running distance, the aggressive driving (US06) cycle requires more energy compared to the other cycles. Our results confirmed that the designed FCV model can be used to predict the degradation of a fuel cell stack under various driving cycles without a real test bench.
UT WOS:000516714200061
ER

PT J
AU Chen, HX
   Kan, K
   Wang, HL
   Binama, M
   Zheng, Y
   Xu, H
AF Chen, Huixiang
   Kan, Kan
   Wang, Haolan
   Binama, Maxime
   Zheng, Yuan
   Xu, Hui
TI Development and Numerical Performance Analysis of a Micro Turbine in a
   Tap-Water Pipeline
DE tap-water pipeline; micro-pipe turbine; selection design;
   multi-objective optimization; orthogonal test; model test
ID ENERGY RECOVERY; TRANSIENT CHARACTERISTICS; DISTRIBUTION NETWORKS;
   POWER-GENERATION; RUNNER BLADES; PUMP; DESIGN; POLLUTION
AB The induction faucet has been widely used in public due to its advantages of convenience, sanitation, water, and electricity saving. To solve the problem of environmental pollution caused by dry batteries used in induction faucets, a suitable micro pipe mixed-flow turbine installed in a tap-water system with only 15 mm in diameter, that uses the pipeline water pressure to generate electricity for the induction faucet was designed and developed, based on computational fluid dynamics (CFD) and model tests. According to the specific speed, a preliminary design of each flow component of the turbine was first produced. Then, using the multi-objective orthogonal optimization method, the optimum test schemes were determined, and the influence of various test factors on the turbine's hydraulic performance was revealed. Under the design flow rate, the turbine's power output and efficiency were 6.40 W and 87.13%, respectively, which were 34.45% and 4.99% higher than those of the preliminary scheme. Both the power output and efficiency of the optimized turbine met the design requirements. Numerical and model test results showed good agreement, where the deviation in turbine power output predictions was below 5% under large flow condition. Model test results also showed that the turbine can be started as long as the inlet flow is greater than 0.14 kg/s. Overall, the micro-pipe turbine designed in this paper exploits the (mostly wasted) water kinetic energy in induction faucets for power production, contributing to environmental pollution reduction and realizing energy conservation.
UT WOS:000707321400001
ER

PT C
AU Gharbia, Y
   Ayoub, H
AF Gharbia, Yousef
   Ayoub, Haytham
GP ASHRAE
TI MSF-RO Hybrid System for Seawater Desalination in Kuwait
ID OPTIMAL-DESIGN; PLANTS
AB Most of the water used in Kuwait comes from several co-generation plants. These plants use the waste heat from the electrical power generation cycle to heat the seawater fed to multistage flash (MSF) desalination units, which produce highly purified water with total dissolved solids (TDS) of less than 50 ppm. This kind of water is not suitable for human consumption without adding some necessary minerals to increase the TDS to about 500 ppm. Buying and adding these minerals to the MSF product water would not be cost effective, especially when this water is not meant excessively for human consumption, but for all other activities. The Ministry of Electricity and Water in Kuwait has been mixing the MSF product with 20-25% groundwater from the Sulaibiya area (TDS 4500-5500 ppm). This solution may not be sustainable as the consumption rate of the groundwater in Kuwait is currently higher than the replenishing rate based on some studies. The aim of this work is to design a reverse osmosis (RO) plant that will treat the MSF's reject water (TDS 48000 ppm) to produce water with a TDS of around 500 ppm. The RO product water can be used as a full or partial substitute for the Sulaibiya groundwater. This is hoped to alleviate the pressure on the Sulaibiya water and consequently lead to extending its life. In this paper, we will be interested in determining the kind of the RO system, the maximum possible water production rate, and the cost per cubic meter of the produced water. The results have shown that a water recovery ratio (Rr) as high as 35% is possible at a specific water production cost of 2.04 US$/m(3).
UT WOS:000468509800034
ER

PT J
AU Banat, F
   Jwaied, N
   Rommel, M
   Koschikowski, J
   Wieghaus, M
AF Banat, Fawzi
   Jwaied, Nesreen
   Rommel, Matthias
   Koschikowski, Joachim
   Wieghaus, Marcel
TI Performance evaluation of the "large SMADES" autonomous desalination
   solar-driven membrane distillation plant in Aqaba, Jordan
DE small-scale; remote communities; solar desalination; membrane
   distillation; performance ratio
ID SYSTEM
AB In search of new sources of water supply, seawater desalination is increasingly recognized as a viable option. In arid coastal areas, the lack of fresh water coincides often with an abundance of solar energy. Coupling desalination systems with renewable energy technologies is of great importance. Project SMADES funded by the EC has sponsored the development of a so-called "large SMADES" system. The system is designed to provide high quality potable water in remote coastal areas with low infrastructure and without connection to a grid. The energy for the desalination process is supplied entirely by solar thermal collectors in the form of heat on a temperature level of 60 degrees C to 80 degrees C. The desalination units are improved membrane distillation (MD) modules with internal beat recovery function. The electrical auxiliary energy which is required to drive the pumps and valves for the automatically operated systems is supplied by PV panels. The collector area is 72 m(2), the hydraulic loop of the collector field comprises a solar heat storage tank of 3 nil and the collector loop is separated from the seawater loop of the MD-desalination-modules. Automatic controls start up the desalination unit whenever sufficient sunlight is present to provide hot water and electricity for pumping from the solar collectors and PV panels. This paper describes this plant that has been assembled at the Marine Science Station (MSS) of Aqaba, Jordan, and presents the results of the first few months of operation. The feed water was seawater directly from the Red Sea.
UT WOS:000251881000003
ER

PT J
AU Hao, XY
   Zhou, YF
   Wang, Q
   Gao, N
   Wang, XH
   Chen, GM
AF Hao, Xinyue
   Zhou, Yifan
   Wang, Qin
   Gao, Neng
   Wang, Xuehui
   Chen, Guangming
TI Prospective study of a novel heat pump system with solar energy spectral
   beam splitting
DE Solar energy; Heat pump system; Spectral beam splitting; Thermal cycle;
   Energy cascade utilization
ID PERFORMANCE; MANAGEMENT
AB Renewable solar energy as a resource for carbon emissions reduction, its application and promotion are hindered by low energy utilization efficiency. Photovoltaic modules mainly convert solar energy into electricity only in the high-frequency spectrum band. In order to achieve a high coefficient of performance, a novel heat pump system with solar energy spectral beam splitting was developed by matching the energy grade and heat pump cycle operating conditions. This also addresses the issue that the conventional heat pump system cannot supply heat efficiently and stably in the cold region of North China. Theoretical investigations were carried out on the distribution of parameters of energy load and efficiency. Compared with conventional PV modules, solar energy utilization with spectral beam splitting, which divides solar energy into the low-frequency spectrum for thermal energy collection and the high-frequency range for power generation, ensures high power production efficiency and utilization efficiency by the cascade thermal and electric energy exploitation in the proposed novel heat pump system. Partial thermal energy is used to provide the hot water, and the rest is upgraded by an ejectorbased heat pump system to meet the space heating requirements. Therefore, the novel heat pump system achieves the combined supply of space heating, hot water, and electricity with high solar energy utilization efficiency through active energy conversion and thermal energy recovery. The goal of creating a structure with zero electric power consumption appears promising. When compared to the typical single PV system's (30.7%) efficiency, the suggested system's overall energy usage efficiency (up to 81.7%) is noticeably higher. In extreme cold areas, the performance superiority of the novel system is more prominent.
UT WOS:001068883000001
ER

PT J
AU Heagele, TN
   McNeill, CC
   Adams, LM
   Alfred, DM
AF Heagele, Tara N.
   McNeill, Charleen C.
   Adams, Lavonne M.
   Alfred, Danita M.
TI Household Emergency Preparedness Instrument Development: A Delphi Study
DE delphi technique; disaster medicine; disaster planning; disasters;
   emergency preparedness
ID DISASTER PREPAREDNESS; RISK PERCEPTION; SELF-EFFICACY; HEALTH; THREAT;
   DISABILITIES; PEOPLE
AB Objective: The main objective of this research was to generate a consensus on the conceptual definition of household emergency preparedness from experts representing multiple disciplines and countries, in order to facilitate the development of an all-hazards, comprehensive, valid, and reliable instrument. Methods: Questions were generated via 3 methods: literature search, using existing instruments, and expert panels using the Delphi technique. Results: Panelists (n = 154) representing 36 countries came to a consensus that household emergency preparedness is defined as the completion of several preparedness actions and assembling a kit that can be transported in an evacuation. The new 51-question instrument demonstrates face, content, and criterion validity and internal consistency reliability (alpha = 0.96). The instrument assesses whether specific preparedness actions have been taken, and the presence or absence of essential supplies that could enable households to safely endure conditions that disasters would likely present (loss of power, water limitations, and/or lack of access to additional supplies for a few days). Conclusion: A valid and reliable instrument provides researchers with a replicable approach to assessment of preparedness levels, which is necessary to plan mitigation strategies, enhance health promotion, prevent injuries, and increase resilience for individuals and communities. The instrument can provide evidence to support interventions addressing health needs of community members following a disaster.
UT WOS:000851039600028
ER

PT J
AU Aamir, M
   Uqaili, MA
   Khan, NA
   Poncela, J
   Chowdhry, BS
AF Aamir, Muhammad
   Uqaili, Muhammad Aslam
   Khan, Nishat Ahmad
   Poncela, Javier
   Chowdhry, B. S.
TI Hardware Implementation and Testing of Reconfigurable RTU for Wireless
   SCADA
DE Remote terminal unit (RTU); Supervisory control and data acquisition
   (SCADA); Programmable logic controller (PLC); Field programmable gate
   array (FPGA); Wireless communication; Tele-control interface (TCI)
ID SYSTEM
AB This paper presents implementation and testing of a remote terminal unit (RTU) design which is suitable for wide area operation essential for controlling and monitoring oil and gas sector, water and power industries . This particular implementation is based on field programmable gate array which confers reliability and reconfigurability properties to the RTU design. It has significant advantages resulting in a more powerful and optimized solution for execution of wireless based Supervisory control and data acquisition system. The main objective of this research work is to implement and verify a design considering performance parameters which assists in optimized development and inexpensive implementation of an RTU, also featured with wireless communication. It also includes behavioral modeling using integrated software environment web pack of XILINX for the purpose of testing functionality of developed RTU. Features of developed RTU are also compared with commercially available hardware considering its cost effectiveness. This particular design and implementation is made up of four major sections including analog input, digital input, digital output and communication interface module.
UT WOS:000363051600013
ER

PT C
AU Eastlack, E
   Klingenberg, S
   Lidqvist, A
   Faiss, E
   Witt, M
   Olsson, P
   Sauter, R
   Szymanski, S
AF Eastlack, Edward
   Klingenberg, Sven
   Lidqvist, Anders
   Faiss, Egon
   Witt, Michael
   Olsson, Par
   Sauter, Richard
   Szymanski, Steve
GP IEEE
TI Zero Emission Super-Yacht
DE Energy; Efficiency; Environment; Carbon Neutral; Fuel Cell; Zero
   Emissions; Superyacht
AB As we move toward a carbon neutral society we look to develop integrated best solutions to eliminate harmful emissions and provide sustainable energy solutions. Due to the wide range of power and propulsion demand in all maritime segments it is difficult to find one common solution. However, a best section and wide range of offered solutions including multi-lateral cooperation of these expert companies is a key element. Electric Propulsion Systems are proven robust and provide benefits such as load profile flexibility, elimination of torque transients, redundancy, and improved fuel efficiency through sophisticated power management systems. Today fuel flexibility includes the use of carbon neutral fuels such as hydrogen and ammonia due to the fact that these fuels are not comprised of greenhouse gasses. Also there is an infinite amount of hydrogen and it can be isolated using renewable energy. The electro-chemical process of a hydrogen powered fuel cell produces electricity and water vapor. The hydrogen supplied to the fuel cell could also be reformed from other fuels. A diesel engine running on ammonia produces zero greenhouse gasses. Advances in hybrid electric propulsion systems provides a platform for renewable harvesting energy sources. A DC bus can provided a hybrid platform for a multitude of DC energy sources to include renewables. These energy sources are an ever-changing landscape and include fuel cells, diesel and turbo generators, batteries, supercapacitors, wind turbines, solar panels, thermal recovery systems, and hydro-turbines to name a few. These combined technologies have made possible zero emission / carbon neutral, efficient, quiet and autonomous power solutions in the megawatt range for application in all segments of the marine industry to include Super-Yachts.
UT WOS:000505687800086
ER

PT J
AU Zhu, HC
   Zhang, HC
AF Zhu, Huichao
   Zhang, Houcheng
TI Integration of proton exchange membrane fuel cell with air gap membrane
   distillation for sustainable electricity and freshwater cogeneration:
   Performance, influential mechanism, multi-objective optimization and
   future perspective
DE Proton exchange membrane fuel cell; Heat management; Waste heat
   recovery; Air gap membrane distillation; Seawater desalination;
   Performance prediction; Economic study; Multi -objective optimization
ID HYBRID SYSTEM; WASTE HEAT; PARAMETRIC ANALYSIS; DESALINATION; MODEL
AB Proton exchange membrane fuel cell (PEMFC) converts vast majority of hydrogen energy into waste heat, resulting in energy wasting, membrane drying and even lifetime shortening. Herein, air gap membrane distillation is proposed to immediately remove and harness the waste heat from PEMFC for additional freshwater production. By quantifying the irreversible thermodynamic and electrochemical losses, mathematical formulas for the water production, power generation and overall efficiency are derived to evaluate the system performance. After a rigorous model validation, the performance feature, feasibility and competitiveness of the proposed system are examined. The integration system achieves a peak power density 23.69 % higher than that of a single PEMFC at 353 K, with a corresponding increase in exergy efficiency by 3.61 %. In addition, the influential mechanisms of the PEMFC operating conditions, air gap thickness, coolant temperature, and properties of the proton exchange membrane and hydrophobic porous membrane are investigated to discern potential avenues for further performance improvement. The gradient-based local sensitivity analyses further determine the optimal parameter regulation strategies for different output targets. The economic study indicates that the levelized costs of water and electricity over the total lifecycle are 21.53 $ m- 3 and 0.061 $ kWh-1, respectively. The multiobjective optimization, integrating genetic algorithm and the technique for order preference by similarity to an ideal solution, maximizes the exergy efficiency and output power density while minimizing the initial investment cost per unit area, with values of 42.84 %, 0.975 W cm-2, and 27.33 $ cm-2, respectively.
UT WOS:001261827200001
ER

PT J
AU Lu, YQ
   Bian, X
   Wang, HL
   Wang, XH
   Ren, YP
   Li, XF
AF Lu, Yuqin
   Bian, Xiao
   Wang, Hailong
   Wang, Xinhua
   Ren, Yueping
   Li, Xiufen
TI Simultaneously recovering electricity and water from wastewater by
   osmotic microbial fuel cells: Performance and membrane fouling
DE Microbial fuel cell; Forward osmosis; Membrane fouling; Biofouling;
   Wastewater treatment
ID INTERNAL CONCENTRATION POLARIZATION; OSMOSIS MEMBRANES; CURRENT
   GENERATION; FLUX BEHAVIOR; MF-OMBR; BIOREACTOR; MICROFILTRATION;
   TECHNOLOGY; FILTRATION; OPERATION
AB Since the concept of the osmotic microbial fuel cell (OsMFC) was introduced in 2011, it has attracted growing interests for its potential applications in wastewater treatment and energy recovery. However, forward osmosis (FO) membrane fouling resulting in a severe water flux decline remains a main obstacle. Until now, the fouling mechanisms of FO membrane especially the development of biofouling layer in the OsMFC are not yet clear. Here, the fouling behavior of FO membrane in OsMFCs was systematically investigated. The results indicated that a thick fouling layer including biofouling and inorganic fouling was existed on the FO membrane surface. Compared to the inorganic fouling, the biofouling played a more important role in the development of the fouling layer. Further analyses by the confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) implied that the growth of biofouling layer on the FO membrane surface in the OsMFC could be divided into three stages. Initially, microorganisms associated with (beta-D-glucopyranose polysaccharides were deposited on the FO membrane surface. After that, the microorganisms grew into a biofilm caused a quick decrease of water flux. Subsequently, some of microorganisms were dead due to lack of nutrient source, in the meantime, polysaccharide and proteins in the biofouling layer were decomposed as nutrient source, thus leading to a slow development of the biofouling layer. Moreover, the microorganisms played a significant role in the formation and development of the biofouling layer, and further studies are needed to mitigate the deposition of microorganisms on FO membrane surfaces in OsMFCs.
UT WOS:000437126100001
ER

PT C
AU Koch, C
   Frausto, O
   Giese, S
   Schirmer, M
   Steenbeck, T
AF Koch, C.
   Frausto, O.
   Giese, S.
   Schirmer, M.
   Steenbeck, T.
BE Brebbia, CA
   Garcia, JLMI
TI Impact on groundwater of a karstic aquifer in the informal settlement
   "Las Fincas" on Cozumel Island, Mexico
DE karstic aquifer; informal settlement; anthropogenic groundwater
   pollution
AB The Yucatan Peninsula is mainly composed of limestone. Cozumel Island is part of the Yucatec carbonate platform. Dissolution processes in the limestone lead to karstification. Groundwater preferentially flows into karstic cavities. Due to its geological structure the karstic aquifer shows a high vulnerability to anthropogenic impacts. This study investigates the impact on groundwater in the area of the informal settlement "Las Fincas". Due to the informal urbanization of the settlement there is neither a public water and power supply nor a sewerage nor waste disposal system. Groundwater samples were taken in a number of domestic wells that are in use for local water supply in "Las Fincas" and tested for typical indicators of anthropogenic pollution. Distinct evidence of fecal contamination was found. The evaluation of a reference analysis of wells outside "Las Fincas" also showed a significant fecal contamination. Two aspects were considered as a reason for the fecal pollution. On the one hand there is the pollution of wastewater and feces by the local residents. On the other hand, there is the practice of the grouting of treated wastewater in deeper zones of the aquifer by the local water supplier. For further investigation a long-term monitoring was established in order to take groundwater samples and record groundwater levels frequently. The study documents the hydrodynamic and hydro chemical conditions of the aquifer and gives recommendations for the use of groundwater without any health risk.
UT WOS:000449954600014
ER

PT J
AU Zhang, X
   Sun, L
   Jia, WY
   Xiong, B
   Wang, LJ
   Hou, JH
   Liu, Z
   Lu, CY
   Shi, WL
AF Zhang, Xiang
   Sun, Lei
   Jia, Wenyu
   Xiong, Bo
   Wang, Lijing
   Hou, Jianhua
   Liu, Zhuo
   Lu, Changyu
   Shi, Weilong
TI Architecturally-engineered scalable nonwoven evaporator with square
   groove morphology for solar desalination and thermoelectricity
   generation
DE Solar energy; Nonwoven; Acetylene carbon black; Thermoelectric effect;
   Desalination; Thermoelectricity generation
ID CLEAN WATER; MEMBRANE; ENERGY; WELL
AB One of the effective ways to solve the problems of freshwater shortage and energy crisis is to combine solar-powered interface evaporation and use of waste heat to generate electricity. Although various schemes for the synergistic generation of fresh water and electricity have been proposed, the existing schemes still have problems such as low utilization of light and poor scalability. Herein, an acetylene carbon black-modified nonwoven fabric (ACB@NF) with square grooves combined with thermoelectric generators (TEG) and heat sink (HS) to form ACB@NF/TEG-HS multifunctional composite evaporator. The results exhibited that the unique square concave structure of the ACB@NF surface on the upper layer of the evaporator facilitated the reflection and refraction of light, which improved the utilization of light to achieve efficient light-heat conversion and allowed the transmission of steam, while the lower layer of the nonwoven fabric was used to ensure sufficient water supply and absorb the heat from the upper layer to achieve efficient evaporation of seawater. Under one sunlight, the evaporation rate of the ACB@NF/TEG-HS system is as high as 1.46 kg m-2 h-1 (4 times that of seawater), with the evaporation efficiency of up to 82.81%, and meanwhile, a 980.8 mW m-2 power is generated through waste heat recovery. Outdoor experiments further validated its practical application potential by connecting four groups of this system in series to achieve 0.78 L m-2 daily freshwater production and 853.64 mW m-2 electricity generation. This study provides a novel approach to the development of scalable and stable solar-powered freshwater and electricity cogeneration systems.
UT WOS:001520626700005
ER

PT C
AU Miles, JJ
AF Miles, JJ
BE Rozlosnik, AE
   Dinwiddie, RB
TI Dual roles of infrared imaging on a university campus: Serving the
   physical plant while enhancing a technology-based curriculum
DE infrared; imaging; predictive maintenance; energy; steam; technology;
   curriculum; laboratory
AB The campus of a comprehensive, residential university is in many respects a small city unto itself. All the amenities and services one would expect in a typical community are readily available on a college campus, including residences, athletic and dining facilities, libraries, and stores. A large campus, therefore, requires a reliable energy plant to provide steam hot water, chilled water, and electricity. James Madison University supports two power plants; a vintage steam plant, and a modem resource recovery facility comprising two solid-waste incinerators and two gas-fired units for steam generation, three steam-driven absorption-chilling units, and a single steam-driven generator for peak electricity production.
   Infrared imaging, as a teaching tool, was introduced in the Program of Integrated Science and Technology at James Madison University in 1997. The infrared Development and Thermal Testing Laboratory was established at the university later in 1997 with government and industry support, and it is presently equipped with infrared imagers and scanners, single-point detectors, and data-acquisition systems. A study was conducted between 1998 and 1999 to test the economic feasibility of implementing an IR-based predictive maintenance program in the university steam plant.
   This paper describes the opportunities created at James Madison University to develop IR-based predictive maintenance programs that enhance the operation of the university energy plants; to establish IR-related research and development activities that support government and industry activities; and to enhance a science- and technology-based curriculum by way of unique, IR-based laboratory experiences and demonstrations.
UT WOS:000169530500036
ER

PT J
AU Zio, E
   Ferrario, E
AF Zio, E.
   Ferrario, E.
TI A framework for the system-of-systems analysis of the risk for a
   safety-critical plant exposed to external events
DE External events risk analysis; System of systems; Muir Web; Monte Carlo
   simulation; Seismic Probabilistic Risk Assessment
ID VULNERABILITY
AB We consider a critical plant exposed to risk from external events. We propose an original framework of analysis, which extends the boundaries of the study to the interdependent infrastructures which support the plant. For the purpose of clearly illustrating the conceptual framework of system-of-systems analysis, we work out a case study of seismic risk for a nuclear power plant embedded in the connected power and water distribution, and transportation networks which support its operation. The technical details of the systems considered (including the nuclear power plant) are highly simplified, in order to preserve the purpose of illustrating the conceptual, methodological framework of analysis. Yet, as an example of the approaches that can be used to perform the analysis within the proposed framework, we consider the Muir Web as system analysis tool to build the system-of-systems model and Monte Carlo simulation for the quantitative evaluation of the model. The numerical exercise, albeit performed on a simplified case study, serves the purpose of showing the opportunity of accounting for the contribution of the interdependent infrastructure systems to the safety of a critical plant. This is relevant as it can lead to considerations with respect to the decision making related to safety critical-issues. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000316923600012
ER

PT J
AU Huynh, CV
   van Scheltinga, CT
   Pham, TH
   Duong, NQ
   Tran, PT
   Nguyen, LHK
   Pham, TG
   Nguyen, NB
   Timmerman, J
AF Chuong Van Huynh
   van Scheltinga, Catharien Terwisscha
   Ty Huu Pham
   Non Quoc Duong
   Phuong Thi Tran
   Linh Hoang Khanh Nguyen
   Tung Gia Pham
   Ngoc Bich Nguyen
   Timmerman, Jos
TI Drought and conflicts at the local level: Establishing a water sharing
   mechanism for the summer-autumn rice production in Central Vietnam
DE Adaptation; Agriculture; Climate change; Governance; Rice production;
   Water sharing
ID CLIMATE-CHANGE; IMPACTS; VULNERABILITY; FOOTPRINT; MAIZE
AB In recent years, water for agricultural production gradually became a significant challenge in the context of climate change in Vietnam. Sustainable solutions are required, which consider the use of resources for both human needs and ecology, and that account for the equitable distribution and the livelihood of the farmers now and in the future. In particular, the farmers in the province of Quang Nam facing water shortage in the cultivation of paddy in the summer-autumn season. Conflicts arise regarding the sharing of the water between the farmers, the drinking water company and the hydropower company. In the context of climate change, the water shortage is expected to increase in the future. The article presents the results of participatory action research (PAR) approach to develop a local level mechanism for water sharing, in which stakeholders actively participated. Water sharing mechanism was developed, envisioning a sustainable solution for inclusive water sharing. The mechanism was successfully implemented in two cases, one at commune level (Tho stream) and one at the district level (Mo stream). The participatory approach proved to be successful in setting up a broadly acceptable mechanism that will need to be further incorporated in the institutional set-up. (C) 2019 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation and China Water and Power Press. Production and Hosting by Elsevier B.V.
UT WOS:000489768900006
ER

PT J
AU Zhang, SN
   Wu, R
   Yang, J
AF Zhang, Sining
   Wu, Ran
   Yang, Jing
TI Willingness of Older Adults to Pay for the Cooling Services Provided by
   Urban Blue-Green Spaces in the City of Chengdu, China
DE Urban heat; Older adults; Willingness to pay; Cooling services; Urban
   blue-green spaces; Payment amount; Climate mitigation
ID TO-PAY; THERMAL COMFORT; CONTINGENT VALUATION; ECOSYSTEM SERVICES;
   PUBLIC-HEALTH; HEAT WAVES; MORTALITY; VULNERABILITY; POPULATION;
   STRATEGIES
AB Global warming is a growing threat to public health, and older adults are most vulnerable to heat waves. The cooling services provided by urban blue-green spaces can effectively alleviate heat-related effects. However, studies regarding appropriate heat mitigation plans for older adults are limited. This study analyzed the perceived heat-related (HR) living, psychological, and physical impacts, as well as HR perception, awareness, and knowledge, of 332 older adults from Chengdu, China. It also analyzed their willingness to pay (WTP) and the payment amount (PA) for cooling services and identified the associated contributors. The results show that living and psychological impacts are severe. The respondents' knowledge of cooling services, HR mitigation, and hazards was low. Ensuring uninterrupted power and water supplies was the most urgent measure. In total, 49.39% of respondents were willing to pay for cooling services. The average PAs were 20.23 and 43.07 RMB annually in the conservative and ideal scenarios, respectively (n = 332). In addition, three variables were found to have a significant positive influence on WTP, while four variables were positive factors of PA. Therefore, this study provides a reference for understanding the mechanism of payment issues of older adults regarding improving and advancing heat-related mitigation and adaptation strategies.
UT WOS:001741170600013
ER

PT J
AU Tan, F
   Lahmer, T
AF Tan, Fengjie
   Lahmer, Tom
TI Shape design of arch dams under load uncertainties with robust
   optimization
DE arch dam; shape optimization; robust optimization; load uncertainty;
   approximation model
ID METHODOLOGY
AB Due to an increased need in hydro-electricity, water storage, and flood protection, it is assumed that a series of new dams will be build throughout the world. The focus of this paper is on the non-probabilistic-based design of new arch-type dams by applying means of robust design optimization (RDO). This type of optimization takes into account uncertainties in the loads and in the material properties of the structure. As classical procedures of probabilistic-based optimization under uncertainties, such as RDO and reliability-based design optimization (RBDO), are in general computationally expensive and rely on estimates of the system's response variance, we will not follow a full-probabilistic approach but work with predefined confidence levels. This leads to a bi-level optimization program where the volume of the dam is optimized under the worst combination of the uncertain parameters. As a result, robust and reliable designs are obtained and the result is independent from any assumptions on stochastic properties of the random variables in the model. The optimization of an arch-type dam is realized here by a robust optimization method under load uncertainty, where hydraulic and thermal loads are considered. The load uncertainty is modeled as an ellipsoidal expression. Comparing with any traditional deterministic optimization method, which only concerns the minimum objective value and offers a solution candidate close to limit-states, the RDO method provides a robust solution against uncertainty. To reduce the computational cost, a ranking strategy and an approximation model are further involved to do a preliminary screening. By this means, the robust design can generate an improved arch dam structure that ensures both safety and serviceability during its lifetime.
UT WOS:000475568000007
ER

PT J
AU Saheed, YK
   Abdulganiyu, OH
   Tchakoucht, TA
AF Saheed, Yakub Kayode
   Abdulganiyu, Oluwadamilare Harazeem
   Tchakoucht, Taha Ait
TI A novel hybrid ensemble learning for anomaly detection in industrial
   sensor networks and SCADA systems for smart city infrastructures
DE Intrusion detection system; SCADA; Industrial control networks; Critical
   infrastructure; Smart Grid; Smart City; Grey wolf optimizer; Ensemble
   learning; Bagging; Adaboost; Stacking; Internet of things
ID SET-THEORETIC APPROACH; BIJECTIVE SOFT SET; INTRUSION DETECTION;
   SELECTION; DESIGN
AB Critical Infrastructures (CIs) use Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) systems for monitoring and remote control. Sensor networks are being integrated into all areas of the infrastructures of smart cities. The sensor network data stream contains information that can be utilized to model and control the activity of these infrastructures. However, SCADA systems are constantly exposed to a variety of diverse intrusions, making detection with traditional intrusion detection systems (IDS) extremely difficult. Due to their unique specifications, conventional security solutions, like antivirus and firewall software, are unsuitable for properly securing SCADA systems. In addition, anomaly detection in industrial sensor networks (ISNs) should occur in real time. Therefore, effectively identifying cyberattacks in major SCADA systems is unquestionably essential for enhancing their resilience, ensuring safe operations, and avoiding expensive maintenance. We developed a novel hybrid ensemble model approach to address these issues. This paper's primary objective is to detect hostile intrusions that have already circumvented firewalls and typical IDS. In this paper, we propose a hybrid Ensemble Learning Model (ELM) for intrusion detection in SCADA systems with ISNs utilizing a tangible data gathered from a gas pipeline system given by Mississippi State University (MSU), the water system, and the high-dimensional University of New South Wales-NB 2015 (UNSW-NB15) data that reflects a typical attack in the Internet of Things (IoT) environment. The unity normalization method was adopted for data preprocessing, and the Principal Component Analysis (PCA) was utilized for feature extraction of the high-dimensional datasets. Grey Wolf Optimizer (GWO) was used for optimizing the bagging, stacking, Adaboost, and an ensemble of classifiers Naive Bayes and Support Vector Machine with a majority voting technique. Then, we utilized the proposed approach founded on the bijective soft-set approach for efficient ELM selection. The experiment was conducted in two phases: Initially, without PCA + GWO for feature extraction and selection on the ELM, and subsequently, with PCA + GWO for feature extraction and selection on the ELM. PCA + GWO on the ensemble of classifiers NB + SVM provided an accuracy of 99%, precision of 100%, recall of 100%, and detection rate of 99.90%, outpacing the ensemble of classifiers without PCA feature extraction and GWO optimization approaches.& COPY; 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of King Saud University. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
UT WOS:001042331600001
ER

PT J
AU Rezapour, S
   Nouri, A
   Asadzadeh, F
   Qin, RJ
   Erpul, G
AF Rezapour, Salar
   Nouri, Amin
   Asadzadeh, Farrokh
   Qin, Ruijun
   Erpul, Gunay
TI Integrated organochemical - Microbial solutions remediate degraded
   saline-sodic soils
DE Biochar; Chemical amendment; Organic amendment; Saline-sodic soils; Soil
   degradation
ID QUALITY; GYPSUM; ERODIBILITY; BIOCHAR; EROSION; CROPS
AB Projections of global population growth underscore the urgent need to restore degraded saline-sodic soils to meet rising demands for food, feed, and fiber. This study evaluated the individual and combined effects of gypsum (G), elemental sulfur (S), vermicompost (VC), biochar (B), and microbial inoculation on soil remediation. A comprehensive soil degradation index (CSDI) was developed with total (CSDI-T) and minimum datasets (CSDI-M) using 13 soil properties. All treatments significantly improved soil health (p < 0.05), with G + VC and S + VC combinations reducing CSDI-T by 84-85 % and 65-71 % and CSDI-M by 84-87 % and 66-70 %, respectively. Soil remediation rates correlated directly with crop yield, with CSDI models explaining 29-87 % of the variance in wheat yield. These findings highlight G/S + VC treatments as cost-effective, environmentally sustainable solutions for soil restoration and productivity enhancement, with CSDI models offering robust tools for evaluating amendment strategies. (c) 2025 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water & Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
UT WOS:001587793000001
ER

PT J
AU Geiger, M
   Neuner, S
   Bodur, ME
   Fekete, A
AF Geiger, Manuel
   Neuner, Steffen
   Bodur, Muhammed Enes
   Fekete, Alexander
TI Failure of critical infrastructures in German hospitals. Online survey
   on crisis management structures and exercises in hospitals
DE Hospital incident action planning; Crisis management; Hospital incident
   management team; Emergency planning; Supply; Hospital incident action
   planning; Crisis management; Hospital incident management team;
   Emergency planning; Supply
AB Background Hospitals are critical infrastructures and essential for healthcare provision, yet they heavily depend on the continuous availability of other parts of the critical infrastructure, such as electricity and water supply. In emergencies, organizational aspects often play a crucial role as hospitals need to shift from routine organizational structures to specialized crisis management frameworks. This survey investigates the organizational structures used by German hospitals in crisis management, focusing on the frequency and types of exercises related to critical infrastructure failures, particularly water and power supply as well as sewage disposal. Objective While organizational preparations for mass casualty incidents are common in German hospitals, insufficient structures are implemented for critical infrastructure failures as well as how often these scenarios are practiced. This study aims to address these gaps by examining hospital crisis management structures, the frequency of related exercises and the interplay among hospital size, ownership and regional factors. The research is part of the NOWATER project, funded by the Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF, 13N15281), which investigates these aspects. Methods The survey conducted from November 2022 to April 2023 and targeting hospitals across Germany, gathered 72 fully completed responses, representing 3.8% of Germany's total hospitals. Results The findings reveal a diverse range of crisis management structures employed across hospitals, with 47% adhering to the federal recommendation for the Feuerwehr-Dienstvorschrift 100 (Fire Department service regulations 100) framework; however, many hospitals, especially those with fewer than 200 beds, opt for regular organizational structures or hybrid models. The survey also highlights a significant variation in the frequency of exercises across hospitals. While annual exercises for power failure scenarios are common, training related to water and wastewater disruptions is rarely conducted. Additionally, hospitals with fewer than 200 beds tend to conduct fewer exercises than larger hospitals, with significant disparities in resources influencing exercise frequency and type. Conclusion The results suggest that while larger hospitals are more likely to follow recommended crisis management structures and conduct regular exercises, smaller hospitals often lack the personnel and financial resources necessary for such preparations. This disparity underlines the need for tailored crisis management strategies that account for hospital size and available resources. In conclusion, the study underlines the importance of regular crisis management exercises to improve resilience and preparedness for infrastructure failures. It also calls for increased focus on water and wastewater contingency planning, which currently lags behind emergency power supply preparations in most hospitals. Policymakers and healthcare managers are encouraged to support hospitals, particularly smaller ones, with the necessary resources to implement effective crisis management structures and exercises.
UT WOS:001727541300001
ER

PT J
AU Landegren, F
   Höst, M
   Möller, P
AF Landegren, Finn
   Host, Martin
   Moller, Peter
TI Simulation based assessment of resilience of two large-scale
   socio-technical IT networks
DE Critical infrastructure; Resilience; Robustness; Rapidity; Simulation;
   Socio-technical system; IT network; SCADA system
ID INFRASTRUCTURE; FRAMEWORK; SYSTEMS
AB Most sectors of modern society are currently undergoing rapid digitalization. With the progress of this development IT networks are becoming an ever more crucial asset whose failure are prone to cause economic losses and risks to health and safety of the population. Due to this development, it is increasingly important that IT networks are designed to be resilient, meaning that they either maintain or quickly recover their functionality when exposed to strains of various kinds. Simulation-based methods that consider supply network topology as well as system for repairing the supply network have previously been applied and found to be useful for assessment of resilience of electricity and water networks. A method of this kind is here applied for IT networks. The method, however, considers only hardware and operator fault modes, not software and dependency faults. The IT networks are studied as socio-technical systems, here broadly understood as systems whose functionality depend on technical as well as organizational sub-systems. The aim of the present paper is to investigate if the method is applicable for assessment of resilience of large-scale IT networks that are critical to society, meaning that (1) it is possible to apply for such systems based on available data, in this case gathered mainly through interviews with focus groups, (2) the results are relevant for users/maintainers/owners of these systems and (3) it captures all relevant factors. The method is tested in case studies on the IT network of a municipality and the SCADA system of a wastewater network. Follow-up interviews were conducted with system managers to assess the perceived relevance of the method and results. It is concluded that the method can be used to obtain the resilience metrics sought for and that the method enables system owners to see if and for what levels of strain they are presently reaching their desired targets concerning system resilience. Follow-up interviews also indicate that the method is perceived by the system managers as being able to support decision making concerning improvement in system resilience. (C) 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000451730800011
ER

PT J
AU Mohammadrezaie, S
   Angili, TS
   Eskafi, F
AF Mohammadrezaie, Sh
   Angili, T. Soleymani
   Eskafi, F.
TI Environmental performance evaluation (EPE) of Iran Khodro Co. (IKCO)
DE environmental performance; evaluation; indicators; criteria; Iran Khodro
   Co.
AB Iranian industries are increasingly concerned with sustainable development by controlling their impacts on environment. Iranian automotive industries have began conducting environmental management within a structured management system based on ISO 14001 international standard since 1997. Iran Khodro Co. (IKCO), the largest Iranian automotive manufacturer, implemented EMS entire the company in 2000. IKCO have found that environmental audits carried out within EMS are non sufficient to provide management of the organization with reliable and verifiable information on organization's environmental performance trend. Therefore, it decided using Environmental Performance Evaluation (EPE) for mentioned purpose. To begin EPE process, EPE scope was determined entire IKCO and EPE period was considered 2002-2004. Then, EPE process of IKCO followed the steps as selecting Environmental Performance Indicators (EPIs), collecting data relevant to the selected indicators, analyzing and converting data into information describing environmental performance and assessing information in comparison with the Environmental Performance Criteria (EPCs). Tracking IKCO's environmental performance trend over EPE period indicates that considerable progress has been made regarding decreased water, electricity, natural gas and compressed air consumption as well as waste water generation. The results of EPE have also helped to identify several effective measures for ftirther improvement, e.g. environmental training performance and investments for environmental projects. EPE helped IKCO to verify the areas to which the environmental programs within IKCO's EMS had advanced. Furthermore, EPE gave a good idea for providing a basis for any corrective actions in areas which have not made considerable progress or shown deficiency. However, IKCO's environmental performance evaluation is still in its early stages. It is necessary reviewing the EPE process for improvement to conform the appropriateness of the selected EPIs, relevance of EPCs, reliability of data collected, comparability of data between years and companies, etc.
UT WOS:000255706100008
ER

PT J
AU Vizcaíno, P
   Banchik, AD
   Abriata, JP
AF Vizcaíno, P
   Banchik, AD
   Abriata, JP
TI Solubility of hydrogen in Zircaloy-4:: irradiation induced increase and
   thermal recovery
ID ZIRCONIUM; ALLOYS
AB The solid solubility of hydrogen isotopes in neutron irradiated Zircaloy-4 core components removed after 10.3 years in service is studied by differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) in two cooling channels of the Atucha I Heavy Water Power Reactor, Argentina. For irradiated Zircaloy-4 samples containing 150-380 ppm-H-eq the temperature for hydride dissolution, TSSd(irrad), measured during the first DSC run was approximately similar to the reactor operating temperature (260-300 degreesC) and 50-150 degreesC lower than the TSSd for unirradiated material. This difference decreases in subsequent DSC runs and a stage of stable TSSd(irrad) intermediate values is reached. After further isothermal annealings the TSSd(irrad) values approach asymptotically TSSd. These results may be interpreted by assuming that a fraction of the total hydrogen isotope concentration, which is similar to the concentration that should be present in solid solution in unirradiated Zircaloy-4 at the operating temperature, is in solid solution in the irradiated Zircaloy-4 and the rest is trapped and slowly released from complex irradiation induced defects. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000177829200002
ER

PT J
AU JAMES, LP
AF JAMES, LP
TI THE MERCURY TROMOL MILL - AN INNOVATIVE GOLD RECOVERY TECHNIQUE, AND A
   POSSIBLE ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERN
AB In Indonesia and other developing countries, an ingenious pebble mill and amalgamation drum serves both for gold production and bulk sample assay. Known as ''tromol'' mills, these locally-fabricated devices are carried to remote mountain areas for frontier small-scale mining and basic prospecting. Many hundreds of tromol drums now tum at plants in rural areas.
   The steel drum is filled with a standard quantity of rock, topped with hard river cobbles, and rotated by an engine or water power. Mercury, imported illegally at high cost, is added to amalgamate gold and silver. Waste, containing any lost mercury, typically washes into streams. Limited studies in North America and Russia suggest some biological uptake occurs from metallic mercury lost long ago by obsolete gold processing methods. Levels regarded as hazardous are noted in river fish in Nevada and Quebec, but no major health problems are attributed to mercury from gold mining in temperate climate regions. No published data on mercury discharges in Indonesia was found. Application of simple metallurgical techniques at Indonesian mining camps could greatly decrease mercury (and probably also gold) loss.
UT WOS:A1994NG55200020
ER

PT C
AU Saha, T
   Bagchi, AC
   Wang, HJ
   Zane, R
AF Saha, Tarak
   Bagchi, Anindya Chitta
   Wang, Hongjie
   Zane, Regan
GP IEEE
TI Analysis and Design of Wide Range Output Voltage Regulated Power Supply
   for Underwater Constant Input Current DC Distribution System
DE parallel resonant converter; dc current distribution; underwater power
   distribution; wide range output voltage
AB Constant current feed is preferred in long distance under-water power distribution networks due to robustness against cable impedance and faults. Multiple power converter modules connected in series along the distribution line either provide a regulated current or regulated voltage at their outputs. In this paper, an isolated parallel resonant converter based converter architecture is presented that provides wide range of regulated output voltage over wide load range using multiple transformer secondary windings and a combining circuit. Steady state analysis and design are presented to minimize component count and stress with high efficiency over the full desired operating range. A generalized design method is presented for such a converter to operate from constant dc current source to regulate its output voltage over 1:10 range with 1:10 load range for each output voltage setting. Finally, a hardware prototype has been built and tested to validate the design with 250 kHz switching frequency and a regulated output voltage that can vary between 80 V to 250 V over a load range of 50 W to 500 W. The converter is fed from a 1 A constant current source.
UT WOS:000455139800030
ER

PT J
AU Balakrishnan, S
   Jin, LWC
   Cassottana, B
   Costa, A
   Sansavini, G
AF Balakrishnan, Srijith
   Jin, Lawrence
   Cassottana, Beatrice
   Costa, Alberto
   Sansavini, Giovanni
TI Developing resilience pathways for interdependent infrastructure
   networks: A simulation-based approach with consideration to risk
   preferences of decision-makers
DE Infrastructure simulation; Interdependencies; High-impact
   low-probability; Cumulative prospect theory; Resilience
ID PROSPECT-THEORY; SEISMIC RESILIENCE; FLOOD; INVESTMENTS
AB In this study, we propose a methodological framework to identify and evaluate cost-effective pathways for enhancing resilience in large-scale interdependent infrastructure systems, considering decision-makers' risk preferences. We focus on understanding how decision-makers with varying risk preferences perceive the benefits from infrastructure resilience investments and compare them with upfront costs in the context of high-impact low-probability (HILP) events. First, we compute the costs of interventions as the sum of their capital costs and maintenance costs. The benefits of the interventions include the reduction in physical damage costs and business disruption losses resulting from the improved resilience of the network. In the final stage, we develop statistical models to predict the perceived net benefits of different network resilience configurations in power, water, and transport networks. These models are employed in an optimization framework to identify optimal resilience investment pathways. By incorporating Cumulative Prospect Theory (CPT) in the optimization framework, we show that decision-makers who assign higher weights to low probability events tend to allocate more resources towards post-disaster recovery strategies leading to increased resilience against HILP events, like earthquakes. We illustrate the methodology using a case study of the interdependent infrastructure network in Shelby County, Tennessee.
UT WOS:001317926000001
ER

PT J
AU Abdelgaied, M
   Kabeel, A
   Abdullah, A
AF Abdelgaied, Mohamed
   Kabeel, Abd Elnaby
   Abdullah, Abdelkader
TI Performance optimization of the hybrid HDH-RO desalination system
   powered by photovoltaic-thermal modules using solar dish concentrators
DE humidification-dehumidification; hybrid desalination system; performance
   improvement; photovoltaic-thermal; reverse osmosis; solar dish
   concentrator
ID ENERGY; WATER; DRIVEN; RECEIVERS; WIND
AB The lack of pure water and electricity in remote regions pushes to simulate of an innovative high-productive hybrid desalination system with the lowest power consumption rates, and this represents a major challenge recently. To achieve this goal, the present study aimed to simulate an innovative hybrid HDH-RO desalination system powered by photovoltaic-thermal modules and a solar dish concentrator. The proposed innovative hybrid system is characterized by integrating two common technologies for pure water production namely: HDH desalination unit and RO desalination unit with an energy recovery device. In order to achieve the highest production rates of pure water with the lowest possible rates of power consumption, the proposed innovative hybrid system was provided with photovoltaic-thermal modules and solar dish concentrators, as preheating units to heat the feed water before its entering the HDH-RO desalination unit. The photovoltaic-thermal modules have a dual function: enhancing the performance of photoelectric conversion, and simultaneously preheating the feed water before it enters the spiral coil of the solar dish concentrator. The solar dish concentrator with a solar thermal receiver was purposed to raise the feed water temperatures before it enters the HDH-RO desalination unit, to improve evaporation rates within the HDH unit as well as increase the rates of water permeating for the RO unit. The results indicated that the utilization of the photovoltaic-thermal modules and solar dish concentrators, as preheating units to heat the feed water before its entering the HDH-RO desalination unit has positive effects in terms of increasing the pure water productivity and reducing the rates of power consumption. The productivity of pure water for the innovative hybrid system ranged between 793 and 861 kg/h, with an improvement of 25.9%-36.6% compared to the traditional RO unit without adding any other modifications. Also, the average improvement in the water recovery ratio reached 31.7%. Moreover, the savings in the specific power consumption for utilizing the proposed innovative hybrid system varied between 12.9% and 13.9% compared to the traditional RO unit.
UT WOS:000803893500001
ER

PT J
AU Nevill, JB
   Lombardo, FT
AF Nevill, Justin B.
   Lombardo, Franklin T.
TI Structural Functionality Scale for Light-Framed Wood Buildings with
   Indicators for Windstorm Damage
DE Functionality; Resilience; Wind damage; Tornado; Thunderstorm;
   Multihazard
ID RESILIENCE; EARTHQUAKE; WIND; PERFORMANCE; FRAGILITY; RECOVERY; JOPLIN
AB A new, broadly applicable scale for measuring the structural functionality of light-framed wood buildings provides a foundation for progress in disaster and resilience research. Existing scales commonly used in resilience analysis are designed to measure damage and do not resolve functionality, the stated metric of most resilience models. The structural functionality of a building is defined as the ability of the building to provide the primary function as a shelter. Total functionality for a building includes additional nonstructural components, such as electric power, water, and transportation access. The structural functionality scale for light-framed wood buildings is designed to measure structural functionality directly. A set of structural functionality indicators for wind-damaged buildings provides a metric with distinguishable discrete indicators on the continuous structural functionality scale. The structural functionality indicators were designed to provide compatibility with existing scales related to wind damage. General guidelines for similarly metered indicators on the structural functionality scale provide a basis for measuring the impact of other hazards. The structural functionality scale and indicators provide a reference for comparison between resilience models and allow empirical measurements of structural functionality and resilience. Once adopted in conceptual resilience models, the structural functionality scale will provide a basis for validation with empirical measures. (C) 2020 American Society of Civil Engineers.
UT WOS:000538128400024
ER

PT J
AU Balakrishnan, S
   Cassottana, B
   Verma, A
AF Balakrishnan, Srijith
   Cassottana, Beatrice
   Verma, Arun
TI Application of clustering algorithms for dimensionality reduction in
   infrastructure resilience prediction models
DE High-dimensionality; infrastructure resilience; interdependencies;
   machine learning; network analysis; network clustering; urban simulation
ID SEISMIC RESILIENCE; NETWORK; FRAMEWORK; POWER
AB Recent studies increasingly adopt simulation-based machine learning (ML) models to analyse critical infrastructure system resilience. For realistic applications, these ML models consider the component-level characteristics that influence the network response during emergencies. However, such an approach could result in a large number of features and cause ML models to suffer from the 'curse of dimensionality'. A clustering-based method is presented that simultaneously minimises the problem of high-dimensionality and improves the prediction accuracy of ML models developed for resilience analysis in large-scale interdependent infrastructure networks. The methodology has three parts: (a) generation of simulation dataset, (b) network component clustering, and (c) dimensionality reduction and development of prediction models. First, an interdependent infrastructure simulation model simulates the network-wide consequences of various disruptive events. The component-level features are extracted from the simulated data. Next, clustering algorithms are used to derive the cluster-level features by grouping component-level features based on their topological and functional characteristics. Finally, ML algorithms are used to develop models that predict the network-wide impacts of disruptive events using the cluster-level features. The applicability of the method is demonstrated using an interdependent power-water-transport testbed. The proposed method can be used to develop decision-support tools for post-disaster recovery of infrastructure networks.
UT WOS:001251346800001
ER

PT C
AU Carneiro, ALG
   Porto, ACS 
AF Carneiro, Alvaro L. G.
   Porto, Almir C. S., Jr.
BE Zio, E
   Baraldi, P
   Pierucci, S
   Klemes, JJ
TI Development of an Integrated Condition Monitoring and Diagnostic System
   for Process Control Valves Used in Nuclear Power Plant
AB The reliability question of the components, specifically the process control valves, became an important point to be investigated in nuclear power plants and others areas such as oil refinery or offshore oil platform, considering security and extension life of the plant. Therefore, the necessity of improvements in monitoring and diagnosis methods started to be the extreme relevance in the maintenance predictive field, as mentioned by Guimaraes Carneiro (2007), establishing as main goal the reliability and readiness of the components systems. The development of nonintrusive monitoring and diagnostics method makes it possible to identify malfunctions in plant components during normal plant operation. The purpose is to present an analysis and diagnostic of a water flow control valve that charges a steam generator, simulating part of the secondary circuit of a power water reactor. This facility is part of the laboratory of tests of propulsion equipment of the Brazilian Navy, in Sao Paulo - Brazil (2007). The methodology of this project is based on the graphic analysis of two parameters; the valve actuator air pressure and the valve plug displacement. The data come from intelligent positioner; it is a kit of Delta V T Automation System (2010). The analysis is implemented on detection of anomalies approach using Expert Systems by Fuzzy Logic technique based on rules and knowledge base. A distinct approach as mentioned by Choudhury (2005), Desborough (2001), Gerry (2001) or Camila Pinto (2010). Once the baseline measurements of control valves are taken, it is possible to detect fault symptoms, leaking, attrition, clamping, damage, etc. The system of monitoring and diagnostic was designed at the MATLAB (TM) platform "FUZZY LOGIC TOOLBOX".
UT WOS:000337960300144
ER

PT J
AU Zhang, ZJ
   Shi, L
AF Zhang, Zhongjie
   Shi, Lei
TI Diversity and uniformity: An entropy-based diagnosis of sectoral roles
   in China's embodied carbon flow network
DE Structural entropy; Interaction entropy; Sectoral emissions; Complex
   network analysis; Input-output modeling
ID INPUT-OUTPUT-ANALYSIS; DECARBONIZATION; UNCERTAINTY; MODELS; TRADE
AB Understanding the structural characteristics of carbon flows is important for designing effective climate mitigation strategies. This study proposes an entropy-based framework to analyze the intersectoral embodied carbon flow network of China, using the 2017 multi-regional input-output data. We decompose information entropy into two components: structural entropy, which captures the diversity of sectoral emissions, and interaction entropy, which reflects the balance of embodied carbon flows across intersectoral linkages. Results show that traditionally high-emission sectors, such as Power and Water and Metal Production, display both high structural entropy and high interaction entropy. In contrast, sectors such as Electronics and Nonmetal Products exhibit high structural entropy but low interaction entropy, indicating internally diverse emissions are not evenly distributed across intersectoral exchanges. In addition, sectors such as Food and Tobacco exhibit moderate structural entropy but relatively high interaction entropy, indicating that concentrated emission sources can still give rise to balanced carbon flows across intersectoral linkages. Uncertainty and robustness analyses further show that entropy metrics reliably explain emission responses to sector-specific changes and remain stable over time. These findings highlight the importance of entropy in identifying structural patterns of carbon exchange and supporting both centralized and decentralized decarbonization strategies.
UT WOS:001596349600001
ER

PT J
AU Silvetti, G
   Barba, D
   Capocelli, M
AF Silvetti, G.
   Barba, D.
   Capocelli, M.
TI Integrating LNG Cold Energy Recovery for Sustainable Water and Power
   Production: A Dual-Purpose Approach
ID FREEZE-CONCENTRATION; DESALINATION; CONFIGURATIONS; HEAT
AB This work addresses the interconnected challenges of climate change, the global energy crisis, and water scarcity. The demand for energy and food, driven by population growth and urbanization, places increasing pressure on limited water resources, particularly in water-intensive processes. Desalination, while crucial for addressing water scarcity, remains energy-intensive and contributes significantly to CO2 emissions. The use of liquefied natural gas (LNG), a cleaner alternative to traditional fossil fuels, is gaining traction; however, its production and regasification still have environmental impacts, especially the release of cold energy during regasification, which is often wasted. This paper focuses on the integration of LNG regasification with water and energy production, particularly leveraging LNG's cold energy for more sustainable water production. The study explores various process schemes based on organic Rankine cycles (ORCs) and freeze desalination (FD), which is less explored but offers significant energy efficiency benefits. By employing process simulations and exergy analysis, the paper seeks to identify sustainable and energy-efficient solutions for large-scale applications, contributing to the development of innovative technologies that integrate LNG cold energy into energy and water production, improving the overall system efficiency.
UT WOS:001508703800001
ER

PT J
AU Rayas, A
   Cheng, JJ
   Anguluri, R
   Deka, D
   Dasarathy, G
AF Rayas, Anirudh
   Cheng, Jiajun
   Anguluri, Rajasekhar
   Deka, Deepjyoti
   Dasarathy, Gautam
TI Learning Networks From Wide-Sense Stationary Stochastic Processes
DE Covariance matrices; Mathematical models; Laplace equations; Sparse
   matrices; Network topology; Information processing; Complexity theory;
   Neuroscience; Maximum likelihood estimation; Brain modeling;
   Conservation laws; l(1)-regularized Whittle's likelihood estimator;
   network topology inference; spectral precision matrix
ID MODEL SELECTION; COVARIANCE ESTIMATION; IDENTIFICATION; TOPOLOGY;
   MATRIX; RECOVERY; LASSO
AB Complex networked systems driven by latent inputs are common in fields like neuroscience, finance, and engineering. A key inference problem here is to learn edge connectivity from node outputs (potentials). We focus on systems governed by steady-state linear conservation laws: X-t = (LYt)-Y-& lowast;, where X-t, Y-t is an element of R-p denote inputs and potentials, respectively, and the sparsity pattern of the pxp Laplacian L & lowast; encodes the edge structure. Assuming X-t to be a wide-sense stationary stochastic process with a known spectral density matrix, we learn the support of L & lowast; from temporally correlated samples of Y-t via an & ell;(1)-regularized Whittle's maximum likelihood estimator (MLE). The regularization is particularly useful for learning large-scale networks in the high-dimensional setting where the network size p significantly exceeds the number of samples n. We show that the MLE problem is strictly convex, admitting a unique solution. Under a novel mutual incoherence condition and certain sufficient conditions on (n,p,d), we show that the ML estimate recovers the sparsity pattern of L-& lowast; with high probability, where d is the maximum degree of the graph underlying L-& lowast;. We provide recovery guarantees for L-& lowast; in element-wise maximum, Frobenius, and operator norms. Finally, we complement our theoretical results with several simulation studies on synthetic and benchmark datasets, including engineered systems (power and water networks), and real-world datasets from neural systems (such as the human brain).
UT WOS:001530124700001
ER

PT J
AU Wang, F
   Magoua, JJ
   Li, N
AF Wang, Fei
   Magoua, Joseph Jonathan
   Li, Nan
TI Modeling cascading failure of interdependent critical infrastructure
   systems using HLA-based co-simulation
DE Critical infrastructure system (CIS); Interdependency; Cascading
   failure; Co-simulation; High level architecture (HLA)
ID POWER; RESILIENCE; EARTHQUAKE; DESIGN
AB Cascading failure modeling in interdependent critical infrastructure systems (CISs) is an important but challenging work that lays the foundation for disaster impact assessment and recovery planning. However, despite the increasing volume of studies that examine cascading failure across interdependent CISs, the majority of modeling approaches proposed in prior studies do not capture the complex heterogeneous nature and behavior of the CISs under disaster, limiting the ability of these approaches to detailly model the cascading failure process. To address the above limitation, this study proposes a high level architecture (HLA)-based co-simulation approach to integrate heterogeneous domain-specific CIS models and model the cross-domain interdependencies and failure propagation processes. Moreover, the approach provides a novel solution for modeling the dynamic impact of disaster on CISs and analyze its impact on the cascading failure of interdependent CISs. A case study of two interdependent power and water systems was conducted, which demonstrated the efficacy of the proposed approach. The results showed that the model developed using the proposed approach could provide granular data of the state and heterogeneous behaviors of the systems, capture the dynamic evolution of disaster impact on system components, and reveal the paths and mechanisms of failure propagation within and across the systems. The proposed modeling approach can overcome the drawbacks in current interdependent CISs cascading failure models, and provide a foundation for resilience assessment of CISs.
UT WOS:000716995000007
ER

PT J
AU Baroutaji, A
   Arjunan, A
   Robinson, J
   Wilberforce, T
   Abdelkareem, MA
   Olabi, AG
AF Baroutaji, Ahmad
   Arjunan, Arun
   Robinson, John
   Wilberforce, Tabbi
   Abdelkareem, Mohammad Ali
   Olabi, Abdul Ghani
TI PEMFC Poly-Generation Systems: Developments, Merits, and Challenges
DE PEM; poly-generation; CHP; CCHP; heat recovery; fuel cells;
   sustainability
ID MICRO-COMBINED-HEAT; MEMBRANE FUEL-CELL; OF-THE-ART; ENERGY-STORAGE
   TECHNOLOGIES; CHP SYSTEM; POWER-SYSTEM; COGENERATION SYSTEM;
   HYDROGEN-PRODUCTION; TECHNOECONOMIC ANALYSIS; TRIGENERATION SYSTEM
AB Significant research efforts are directed towards finding new ways to reduce the cost, increase efficiency, and decrease the environmental impact of power-generation systems. The poly-generation concept is a promising strategy that enables the development of a sustainable power system. Over the past few years, the Proton Exchange Membrane Fuel Cell-based Poly-Generation Systems (PEMFC-PGSs) have received accelerated developments due to the low-temperature operation, high efficiency, and low environmental impact. This paper provides a comprehensive review of the main PEMFC-PGSs, including Combined Heat and Power (CHP) co-generation systems, Combined Cooling and Power (CCP) co-generation systems, Combined Cooling, Heat, and Power (CCHP) tri-generation systems, and Combined Water and Power (CWP) co-generation systems. First, the main technologies used in PEMFC-PGSs, such as those related to hydrogen production, energy storage, and Waste Heat Recovery (WHR), etc., are detailed. Then, the research progresses on the economic, energy, and environmental performance of the different PEMFC-PGSs are presented. Also, the recent commercialization activities on these systems are highlighted focusing on the leading countries in this field. Furthermore, the remaining economic and technical obstacles of these systems along with the future research directions to mitigate them are discussed. The review reveals the potential of the PEMFC-PGS in securing a sustainable future of the power systems. However, many economic and technical issues, particularly those related to high cost and degradation rate, still need to be addressed before unlocking the full benefits of such systems.
UT WOS:000726469000001
ER

PT J
AU Krecek, J
   Nováková, J
   Palán, L
   Pazourková, E
   Stuchlík, E
AF Krecek, Josef
   Novakova, Jana
   Palan, Ladislav
   Pazourkova, Eva
   Stuchlik, Evzen
TI Role of forests in headwater control with changing environment and
   society
DE Headwater catchment; Forest functions; Water resource recharge; Acid
   atmospheric deposition; Climate change
ID STREAM ACIDIFICATION; CENTRAL-EUROPE; INTERCEPTION; PERFORMANCE;
   EVAPORATION; MANAGEMENT
AB Forest practices in headwater catchments are related to environmental and social contexts. The aim of this study is to analyse the changing protective functions of forests in the upper plain of the Jizera Mts. (North Bohemia, Czech Republic) since the second half of the 19th century. With time, forests have gradually changed from native stands to spruce plantations (Picea antes), introducing exotic conifers (more resistant to air pollution), and, recently, back to more diverse mixed stands. The priority in protective forest functions there shifted from flood protection to integrated control of water resources (quantity and quality). In the 1980s, forest - water interactions were degraded by consequences of extreme acid atmospheric deposition, forest die-back, and extensive clear-cut. In the Jizerka catchment, first signs of recovery were observed in the early 1990s, but, stream waters there are still affected by prolonged acidification. While reconstruction of stream water chemistry at Jizerka follows the drop of the acid deposition in some 5 years, the revival of stream biota takes 10-15 years. In 2071-2100, the projected climate change shows rising annual air temperatures by 3.0-4.6 degrees C, decreasing water yield by 65 -123 mm, 60% drop in 'minimum residual discharge', and 20-30% rise in peak-flows. However, these projected environmental changes cannot substantially decline the high potential in water resource recharge, or, start reverse processes in recent recovery from acidification and radically affect the existence of planned mixed forests in the upper plain of the Jizera Mts. (C) 2020 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation and China Water and Power Press. Production and Hosting by Elsevier B.V.
UT WOS:000614576700013
ER

PT C
AU Ahmad, A
   Zainudin, WS
   Kama, MN
   Bin Ismail, SA
   Saudi, MM
AF Ahmad, Azuan
   Zainudin, Wan Shafiuddin
   Kama, Mohd Nazri
   Bin Ismail, Saiful Adli
   Saudi, Madihah Mohd
GP Assoc Comp Machinery
TI A New Cryptojacking Malware Classifier Model Based on Dendritic Cell
   Algorithm
DE Artificial Intelligence; Cryptojacking; Cyber Security; Malware;
   Dendritic Cell Algorithm
AB A new threat known as "cryptojacking" has entered the picture where cryptojacking malware is the future trend for cyber criminals, who infect victim's device, install cryptojacking malware, and use the stolen resources for crytocurrency mining. Worse comes to worst by 2020, researchers estimate there will be 30 billion of IoT devices in the world. IoT devices are vulnerable to attacks because of their simple configuration, unpatched vulnerability and weak passwords. IoT devices also prone to be poorly monitored because of their nature. There is lack of studies that provide in depth analysis on cryptojacking malware classification using machine learning approach where the current research mostly focused on manual analysis of web-based cryptojacking attacks. As IoT devices requires small processing capability, a lightweight model are required for the cryptojacking malware detection algorithm to maintain its accuracy without sacrificing the performance of other process. As a solution, we propose a new lightweight cryptojacking classifier model based on machine learning technique that may fit in a low processing capability environment such as IoT and Cyber Physical Systems (CPS). This paper aim to disscuss a new approach based on dendritic cell algorithm in order to provide a lightweight cryptojacking classifier model. The output of this paper will be significant used in detecting cryptojacking malware attacks that benefits multiple industries including cyber security contractors, oil and gas, water, power and energy industries.
UT WOS:000631898400050
ER

PT J
AU Liguori, N
   Tarque, N
   Bambaren, C
   Santa-Cruz, S
   Palomino, J
   Laterza, M
AF Liguori, Nicola
   Tarque, Nicola
   Bambaren, Celso
   Santa-Cruz, Sandra
   Palomino, Juan
   Laterza, Michelangelo
TI Basic Seismic Response Capability of Hospitals in Lima, Peru
DE disasters; earthquakes; emergency preparedness; hospitals; risk
   assessment
ID DECISION-SUPPORT; EARTHQUAKE; SYSTEM; IMPACT
AB ObjectiveThe objective of the study was to research the basic seismic response capability (BSRC) of hospitals in Lima Metropolitana. A large number of wounded could be registered in case of an earthquake; therefore, operational hospitals are necessary to cure the injured. The study focused on the operational performance of the hospitals, autonomies of essential resources such as power, water, medical gases, and medicine, in addition to the availability of emergency communication system and ambulances.MethodsData by a probabilistic seismic risk analysis have been used to assess the operational level of the hospitals. Subsequently, availability of an essential resource has been combined with the immediately operational hospitals to evaluate the BSRC of the health facilities.ResultsForty-one of Lima's hospitals have been analyzed for a seismic event with 72-100 years of a return period. Three hospitals (7.3%) were capable to work in a self-sufficient manner for 72 hours, another three (7.3%) for 24 hours, and one (2.4%) for 12 hours.ConclusionResults showed a low performance of the hospitals in case of an earthquake. The issue is due to the high seismic vulnerability of the existing structures. Given the importance of Lima city in Peru, structural and nonstructural retrofitting plans should be implemented to improve the preparedness of the health system in case of an emergency. (Disaster Med Public Health Preparedness. 2019;13:138-143)
UT WOS:000471321100010
ER

PT J
AU Zhao, DM
   Xiong, DH
   He, KL
   Zhang, BJ
   Zhang, F
   Wu, H
   Fang, HY
   Zhang, WD
   Zhou, CY
   Wang, XD
AF Zhao, Dongmei
   Xiong, Donghong
   He, Kunlong
   Zhang, Baojun
   Zhang, Fan
   Wu, Han
   Fang, Haiyan
   Zhang, Wenduo
   Zhou, Changyan
   Wang, Xiaodan
TI Non-consistent changes and drivers of water-sediment fluxes in the
   yarlung tsangpo river basin of the Tibetan plateau
DE Water-sediment fluxes; Climate change; Cryosphere degradation;
   Revegetation; Yarlung tsangpo river basin
ID CLIMATE-CHANGE IMPACTS; WAVELET COHERENCE; STEEPNESS FACTOR; RUNOFF;
   STREAMFLOW; SCALE; PRECIPITATION; RESTORATION; TEMPERATURE; TRENDS
AB Variations in water-sediment fluxes and their driving mechanisms are critical to riverine ecosystems and management. Yet, current estimates of the response of water and sediment flux remain insufficiently quantified, limited by the scarcity of long-term hydrological records in the alpine regions. Here, we leverage decadal observations in the Yarlung Tsangpo River basin, to investigate the dynamic shifts in water-sediment fluxes from 1955 to 2020 and elucidate their linkage to a warming and wetting climate, snowmelt, and environmental greening (including natural- and human-induced greening) in the different spatial and temporal scale. Major drivers of shifts in water-sediment flux are identified by using wavelet coherence and variance partitioning of redundancy analysis. The results highlight that observational data from four gauging stations (i.e., Lhaze, Nugesha, Yangcun, and Nuxia) uncover a substantial decrease in Suspended Sediment Load (SSL) (Nuxia: 12.302 x 10(4) t/yr, P < 0.05) in the downstream with consistently increasing runoff and precipitation. Especially during the flood season (July to September), the dam/reservoir construction caused a median decrease in SSL. Dropping sediment offsets the slightly rising SSLs in the midstream and upstream (upper Yangcun: 14.8 x 10(4) t/yr, P > 0.05). Up to 80% of sediment was sourced from the middle stretch between Lhaze and Nugesha despite it supplied with lower regional runoff generation. Nevertheless, the downstream zone experienced the transition from a sediment source to a deposition area around 1998. We further found the negative and positive effects between water-sediment fluxes and revegetation, and demonstrated that employing NDVI to evaluate human-induced vegetation greening might overestimate the impact of ecological restoration programs on water-sediment fluxes. Attribution analysis indicates that precipitation was not the primary contributor to runoff and SSL changes in all stretches of the basin. In the upstream, temperature and associated snowmelt can be more important than precipitation. Compared to before 1998, precipitation is still the primary driver of change in downstream runoff change after 1998, whilst vegetation restoration, rather than precipitation, dominates the reduction in downstream SSL. These findings have far reaching significance for watershed managers and decision-makers in terms of developing effective strategies for water resources and soil erosion control. (c) 2024 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY- NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
UT WOS:001459446800001
ER

PT J
AU Kripak, VR
   Tiunov, GA
   Filimonov, PE
AF Kripak, V. R.
   Tiunov, G. A.
   Filimonov, P. E.
TI Online convergence forecast for axial xenon oscillations of the power
   density in VVER-1000 and-1200 reactors
DE VVER; Xenon resistance; Xenon oscillations; Axial offset; Power density;
   Core; Neutron-physical calculations; Computational simulation; Reactor
   stability; Power reactor; 621.039.50; 28.41.-i
AB BackgroundTransient xenon processes in the core of VVER-1000 and -1200 water-water power reactors can lead to the occurrence of axial power oscillations. Online forecast of oscillation convergence represents an urgent and currently unresolved task of nuclear power plant operation.AimTo develop and theoretically justify an improved method for the online forecast of xenon oscillations.Materials and methodsThe data from experiments conducted at the Novovoronezh NPP power unit and computational simulation using the modified Imitator Reaktora software were used.Results and discussionThe developed method forecasts axial oscillations with an error of no more than 18%. In addition to the acceptable level of deviations, the reliability of the online forecast is significantly increased by taking into account damping of axial oscillations. The analytical and computational justification of the method is presented; results of comparison between the forecast with experimental data are provided.ConclusionAn improved method for the online forecast of oscillations taking into account convergence is integrated into the Imitator Reaktora software for use at nuclear power plants.
UT WOS:001463085300001
ER

PT C
AU Teh, TS
   Raju, DK
   Santosh, K
   Chandrasekar, J
AF Teh, T. S.
   Raju, D. K.
   Santosh, K.
   Chandrasekar, J.
BE Favro, S
   Brebbia, CA
TI Future sea level rise implications on development of Lazarus Island,
   Singapore Southern Islands
DE Lazarus Island; island development; land reclamation; vulnerability; sea
   level rise; A2 emission scenario; RTK; DEM; GIS; inundation
AB The Southern Islands compose an urban planning area in the Central Region of Singapore and is made up of the islands of Kusu, Lazarus, Seringat, Tekukor, St. John, Sentosa and the Sister Islands. The islands had largely been expanded by land reclamation in the 1970s to create beaches and swimming lagoons. The new coastlines are armoured by large quarry stones. Other than Sentosa, the rest of the islands are undeveloped and remain as mainly weekend destinations.
   As part of the Singapore Tourism Board's plan to develop the Southern Islands beyond Sentosa, a second phase of land reclamation with sands imported from Indonesia was started in 2000 to link Seringat, Lazarus and Sentosa. The land reclamation took six years to complete and water, electricity, gas and telecommunication infrastructure were brought to the island from Sentosa. The entire project costs nearly S$300 million.
   The strengths and opportunities identified are the unspoilt natural environment, island ambience free from vehicular traffic and proximity to the mainland's central area. The waters of the southern islands have attractive corals and marine life and are popular diving spots. Beaches are of reasonable quality and topographic highs on some islands offer trekking possibilities. The main constraints to developing the islands are absence of road and poor navigational access to the islands. Over the years, there have been various suggestions on how Lazarus Island should be developed. Recent suggestions include turning the island into a getaway for the super rich or housing a casino.
   However, whatever development is planned for Lazarus must take into consideration its sustainability in the face of a future rising sea. Reclamation that took place in the 1970s was before concern about global warming. Consequently, the crest of sea walls and platform levels of reclaimed land are low and vulnerable to wave overtopping and inundation during extreme high tides. Inundation analyses using Geographic Information System carried out under A2 sea level rise scenario for Lazarus suggest that extra care must be taken in developing these islands to avoid future problems.
UT WOS:000281197700011
ER

PT J
AU He, WF
   Han, D
   Wen, T
   Yang, HX
   Chen, JJ
AF He, W. F.
   Han, D.
   Wen, T.
   Yang, H. X.
   Chen, J. J.
TI Thermodynamic and economic analysis of a combined plant for power and
   water production
DE Combined system; Organic rankine cycle; Humidification dehumidification;
   desalination unit; Energetic and entropic analysis; Influence laws
ID HUMIDIFICATION-DEHUMIDIFICATION DESALINATION; WASTE-HEAT-RECOVERY;
   RANKINE-CYCLE ORC; AIDED WORKING-FLUID; MULTIOBJECTIVE OPTIMIZATION;
   THERMOECONOMIC ANALYSIS; PERFORMANCE; SYSTEM; DRIVEN; EXCHANGER
AB This paper proposes a novel combined system, driven by industrial waste heat, to satisfy the simultaneous demand both for power and freshwater. The concept of organic Rankine cycle is applied to achieve the power generation, while a humidification dehumidification desalination unit is introduced to provide freshwater. For the purpose of efficient energy utilization, the internal energy of the discharged brine and preheated seawater is recovered. Based on the energetic and entropic analysis, the thermodynamic performance of the combined system is simulated, and the influence laws, mainly from the condensing temperature, terminal temperature difference of the recuperator and mass flow rate ratio of the feed seawater, are revealed. Finally, the economic viewpoint of the power and water combined system is also focused. The results show that maximum values of 13.1 kW for the net output power, and 208kgh(-1) for the water production can be acquired, when isobutane is applied as the working fluid. It is found that lower condensing temperature and terminal temperature difference of the recuperator indicate a higher water production, while the total efficiency can be further determined in combination with the energy input. It is also discovered that the mass flow rate ratio of the feed seawater is a critical parameter to influence the system performance, although the final effect will be restricted by the entropy generation rate of the system components. Through the comparison among the combined systems, the advantages of the current type are proved by the unit area and cost of production. With respect to the economic performance, a fixed investment for the entire combined system, 49934(sic), the cost of production with 0.0032(sic)L-1 for water and 0.063(sic)kW(-1)h(-1) for the electricity are obtained. It is also revealed that the production cost can be compressed with higher share of revenues, operation hours and design lifetime. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000470947000044
ER

PT J
AU Pan, JP
   Zhang, KC
   Han, QJ
   Xie, SB
   An, ZS
AF Pan, Jiapeng
   Zhang, Kecun
   Han, Qingjie
   Xie, Shengbo
   An, Zhishan
TI Aeolian sediments physicochemical properties along the Qinghai-Tibet
   Railway
DE Aeolian environment; Aeolian sediment; Grain size; Soil nutrients and
   salinity; Qinghai-Tibet Railway
ID GRAIN-SIZE CHARACTERISTICS; SOIL NUTRIENT LOSS; WIND EROSION; BLOWN
   SAND; PARTICLE-SIZE; ENVIRONMENT; GRASSLAND; SALINITY; PLATEAU; SECTION
AB Frequent and complex aeolian activity along the Qinghai-Tibet Railway (QTR) has resulted in substantial deposition of aeolian sediments along the corridor. To investigate the physicochemical properties of these sediments, this study combined historical meteorological data and aeolian sediment samples from three typical landform types along the QTR. The aim was to reveal regional aeolian dynamics, sedimentary attributes, and their interaction mechanisms. Aeolian activity was mainly concentrated in the Wudaoliang-Amdo section, where the mean annual wind speed at Wudaoliang reached 5.4 m/s. Sediment characteristics varied among landform types: desertified grasslands exhibited the highest stability with a mean grain size of 3.83 Phi, while sand surfaces and the Gobi Desert showed greater variability. Soil organic matter was highest in desertified grasslands (1.41 g/kg). However, soil nutrients along the railway displayed high spatial variability, with the coefficient of variation of total nitrogen (TN) on sand surfaces reaching 133.1 %. Phosphorus and potassium were generally deficient; for example, total phosphorus content in sand surface sediments ranged only from 0.22 to 0.68 g/kg, potentially hindering ecological restoration. TN was identified as an important nutrient parameter. Overall, the distribution of soil nutrients was significantly influenced by soil salinity, but nutrient interactions were stronger in desertified grasslands. Redundancy analysis identified dominant drivers of soil nutrients: fine particles acted as the primary factor on sand surfaces, whereas total salt content dominated desertified grasslands and Gobi Desert samples, explaining over 70 % of the variation. In desertified grasslands, nutrient patterns were indirectly shaped by vegetation, whereas in the Gobi Desert they were influenced by salinity, topography, and sediment sources. These findings provide a solid basis for designing and optimizing aeolian protection systems along the QTR and offer guidance for ecological restoration along alpine railway corridors. (c) 2025 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation and China Water and Power Press. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/ 4.0/).
UT WOS:001755742900001
ER

PT J
AU Zemite, L
   Kronkalns, D
   Backurs, A
   Jansons, L
   Eglitis, N
   Cnubben, P
   Lapuke, S
AF Zemite, Laila
   Kronkalns, Davids
   Backurs, Andris
   Jansons, Leo
   Eglitis, Nauris
   Cnubben, Patrick
   Lapuke, Sanda
TI Development of an Innovative Landfill Gas Purification System in Latvia
DE landfill gas; gas purification; desulfurization; waste management
ID METHANE
AB The management of municipal solid waste remains a critical environmental and energy challenge across the European Union (EU), where a significant portion of waste still ends up in landfills, generating landfill gas (LFG) rich in methane and harmful impurities. In Latvia, despite national strategies to enhance circularity, untreated LFG is underutilized due to inadequate purification infrastructure, particularly in meeting biomethane standards. This study addressed this gap by proposing and evaluating an innovative, multistep LFG purification system tailored to Latvian conditions, with the aim of enabling the broader use of LFG for energy cogeneration and potentially biomethane injection. The research objective was to design, describe, and preliminarily assess a pilot-scale LFG purification prototype suitable for deployment at Latvia's largest landfill facility-Landfill A. The methodological approach combined chemical composition analysis of LFG, technical site assessments, and engineering modelling of a five-step purification system, including desulfurization, cooling and moisture removal, siloxane filtration, pumping stabilization, and activated carbon treatment. The system was designed for a nominal gas flow rate of 1500 m(3)/h and developed with modular scalability in mind. The results showed that raw LFG from Landfill A contains high concentrations of hydrogen sulfide, siloxanes, and volatile organic compounds (VOCs), far exceeding permissible thresholds for biomethane applications. The designed prototype demonstrated the technical feasibility of reducing hydrogen sulfide (H2S) concentrations to <7 mg/m(3) and siloxanes to <= 0.3 mg/m(3), thus aligning the purified gas with EU biomethane quality requirements. Infrastructure assessments confirmed that existing electricity, water, and sewage capacities at Landfill A are sufficient to support the system's operation. The implications of this research suggest that properly engineered LFG purification systems can transform landfills from passive waste sinks into active energy resources, aligning with the EU Green Deal goals and enhancing local energy resilience. It is recommended that further validation be carried out through long-term pilot operation, economic analysis of gas recovery profitability, and adaptation of the system for integration with national gas grids. The prototype provides a transferable model for other Baltic and Eastern European contexts, where LFG remains an underexploited asset for sustainable energy transitions.
UT WOS:001528248900001
ER

PT J
AU Haou, E
   Allarané, N
   Aholou, CC
   Bondoro, O
AF Haou, Ernest
   Allarane, Ndonaye
   Aholou, Cyprien Coffi
   Bondoro, Ouya
TI Stakeholder-Based Optimal Indicators for Urban Sustainability Assessment
   in Sub-Saharan Africa: A Case Study from the City of Moundou in Chad
DE stakeholders' participation and inclusion; urban sustainability
   assessment; mixed methodology approach; optimal indicators; sustainable
   development goals; sub-Saharan Africa
ID ASSESSMENT TOOLS; CHALLENGES; URBANIZATION; NEIGHBORHOOD; TRENDS
AB Over the last two decades, scientific studies have increasingly highlighted the vulnerability of cities to global changes, especially in sub-Saharan Africa, where climate phenomena and urbanization are intensifying. These realities necessitate a reassessment of current urban management models in order to reaffirm the central role of cities in promoting sustainability. In this context, establishing a robust scientific foundation for evaluating the transition processes of cities towards sustainability is essential. This article presents a methodology developed to select and validate indicators, taking into account local issues and the needs expressed by stakeholders. The research was conducted using a mixed-methods approach, which included a literature review, consultations with populations from five study districts, analysis of the indicator needs of development stakeholders, adoption of two methods, and validation of the indicators by a group of experts. The outcome of this research is a set of 20 indicators organized into five dimensions: environmental, social, economic, built environment, and cultural. The analysis of the proportional distribution of these indicators across dimensions reveals a notable predominance of the social dimension, which accounts for 35% of the indicators, including key indicators such as access to potable water, electricity, education, and healthcare services, inter alia. The environmental and built environment dimensions each comprise 20% of the indicators, encompassing indicators such as the preservation of natural resources, waste management, land use management, and flood management, among others. The economic and cultural dimensions represent 15% and 10% of the selected indicators, respectively. These data indicate that achieving sustainable urban development within the context of this study requires a focused effort on enhancing the performance of these indicators, with substantial efforts needed in the social domain. It is of paramount importance to incorporate these indicators into the decision-making processes related to urban development planning in Moundou and other cities in the region, as they provide valuable scientific insights crucial to the pursuit of sustainability.
UT WOS:001333006000001
ER

PT C
AU Clayton, M
   Webber, ME
AF Clayton, Mary
   Webber, Michael E.
GP ASME
TI ASSESSMENT OF EMBEDDED WATER NEEDS AT A MIXED-USE FACILITY IN PALO ALTO,
   CALIFORNIA
AB Assessing and mitigating the water footprint of a business can reduce the risks associated with potential freshwater shortages. Because water is vital in the supply chain and operations of all major industries, depletion of freshwater sources, increases in demand of water, and droughts can threaten a company's production, financial stability, and reputation. Consequently, it is essential to identify water vulnerability in a business's operational portfolio and to ensure that the business's water management aligns with its overall sustainability strategies. Furthermore, understanding a business's water footprint allows for effective resource management, which can help minimize costs and reduce its environmental impact.
   Currently, interest in the water footprints of organizations, products, and services is increasing, creating a need for a shared standard of definitions and methodologies for water metering and reporting. In addition, consistent methodologies for including embedded and indirect water use and a uniform application of analysis boundaries need to be developed. This research aims to develop an accounting methodology for water reporting along with tools for identifying opportunities to improve water efficiency. Additionally, existing definitions, approaches, and best practices for measuring, reporting, and managing water use across different industries are summarized. A conceptual model was developed to evaluate the lifecycle water footprint, including direct and indirect (embedded in energy and materials) water use in both supply chains and operations. Further, a case study is considered to assess the water impact of a mixed-use facility in Palo, Alto, California. Comprehensive water, electricity, and gas metering data were collected for this site, and the water uses of California's energy mix were determined. Finally, this data set was utilized to summarize direct and indirect water use at a corporate site, and recommendations of water conservation and reuse for this site are considered. Future work includes development of validation and optimization approaches for minimizing water usage. The model was built such that it can be expanded to include multiple sites in the global supply chain in order to estimate worldwide water usage throughout a large company's operations.
UT WOS:000350070400161
ER

PT C
AU Bhargava, B
   Salazar, A
AF Bhargava, Bharat
   Salazar, Armando
GP IEEE
TI Use of Synchronized Phasor Measurement System for Monitoring Power
   System Stability and System Dynamics in Real-time.
AB This paper / presentation is discussing the use of Synchronized Phasor Measurement Technology, which is now being used for monitoring power system status and dynamic transient event recording at Southern California Edison (SCE)off-line and in Real-time. This real time monitoring system is expected to enhance the Transmission system reliability and provide wide area visibility of the WECC system. The SPMS can enable SCE to monitor AC-DC power transmission system reliability and improve reliability by monitoring the phase angles and oscillations at several substations and two remote DC terminals. The system could be used for real-time control in future. SCE has been working aggressively on this Synchronized Phasor Measurement technology for over last twelve years and has installed a network of Phasor Measurement Units (PMUs), obtains data from eighteen Phasor Measurement Units (PMUs) and has installed two Phasor Data Concentrators (PDC) on its system. The data from the PMUs/PDCs is now being collected and being used for monitoring and analysis of the system events.
   Recently SCE has developed this tool called "SMART", which enables SCE to view the phasor measurement system data in real-time. SCE also obtains phasor measurement data from Bonneville Power Administration Grand Coulee generating substation, which is over 900 miles away, and close to the Northern HVDC Pacific Inter-tie terminal and monitors the phase angle between the north and the south HVDC Pacific Inter-tie terminals. Monitoring these angle separation is a very useful way of monitoring the stress on the WECC North-South system. SCE is continuing to work on this technology with Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) and Los Angeles Water and Power to investigate the possibility implementing it for real-time monitoring. SCE is also working with other Western Electric Coordinating Council (WECC) members for information exchange. It is believed that the technology has great potentials for enhancing power system stability and power transmission system capability of an A C-DC inter-tie system. This technology is also being used for monitoring the system stability and resulting information can assist in avoiding major system disturbances like the one that occurred on August 10, 1996 in WECC and on August 14, 2003 in Northeast United States and Canada.
UT WOS:000264403800219
ER

PT C
AU Coskun, HG
   Alganci, U
   Usta, G
AF Coskun, H. G.
   Alganci, U.
   Usta, G.
BE Coskun, HG
   Cigizoglu, HK
   Maktav, MD
TI The role of remote sensing and GIS for security
DE Environmental Security; water management; Geographic Information System;
   remote sensing; drinking water basin and dam; multisource information
ID SATELLITE
AB Environmental security is an increasing issue in world affairs. Environmental security is the state of human-environment dynamics that includes restoration of the environment damaged by military actions, and amelioration of resource scarcities, environmental degradation and biological threats that could lead to social disorder and conflict NATO continues to list environmental security as among its most important priorities. Without greater measures to insure environmental security, continued population and economic growth will diminish natural life support systems leading to migration and conflict. With half the world clustering into urban environments, natural disasters and global environmental change affect greater numbers of people who are dependent on civil systems for water, power, transportation, food and other manufactured systems. Security for environment, water management and information is becoming major necessity due to terrorism and heighten level for the quality of human life. New advanced methodologies which are Geographic Information System (GIS) and Remote Sensing (RS) important tool to determine and help to solve described problems to monitor environment for risk assessment and management are needed to meet new challenges including terrorist attacks. Some projects using remote sensing methods with satellite data and GIS software which are subjected to monitor water quality and urban chancing up to time at the drinking water basin and dam will be shown, giving examples on how this integration of multisource information works now and advise the new technologies in the near future.
UT WOS:000252078700023
ER

PT C
AU Qamar, SZ
   Pervez, T
   van de Velden, M
   Sanchez, FJ
AF Qamar, S. Z.
   Pervez, T.
   van de Velden, M.
   Sanchez, F. J.
GP ASME
TI DESIGN AND FABRICATION OF TEST FACILITY FOR LONGEVITY TESTING OF
   ELASTOMER SEALS
ID SWELLING ELASTOMER
AB The oil and gas sector has witnessed a marked inclination worldwide towards enhanced oil recovery (FOR) in recent years due to diminishing easy oil in many fields. One of the more popular FOR strategies is the workover method of converting existing weak horizontal producers to maximum reservoir contact (MRC) wells, or dead vertical wells to single horizontal producers or power water injectors. This attempt at maximum well productivity and total oil recovery is based on installation of downhole smart systems to control flow from each lateral. Expandable liners and swelling elastomers are the key drivers enabling this type of zonal isolation. Enhancement and maximization of hydrocarbon recovery is also being attempted through intelligent and multilateral wells. These well systems cannot succeed without proper zonal isolation and compaitinentalization of the reservoir. Compared to conventional methods, swelling elastomer packers maintain good zonal isolation in even the most complex environments, yielding major savings in rig time and cost.
   As yet, no data is available from designers or manufacturers about the durability or service life of swell packers under actual well conditions. A full-scale rig has therefore been designed and fabricated at the Sultan Qaboos University (SQU), in collaboration with a regional petroleum development company, for longevity testing of water-swelling and oil-swelling elastomers. The test battery includes packers made from different swelling elastomer materials, exposed to actual crude oil or water of different salinities, maintained at different temperatures, and subjected to high pressure. Different conceptual designs of the test setup (for longevity testing over a 5 year period) were developed and later evaluated. Detail design of the best concept was carried out and assessed for reliability, manufacturability, assemblability, etc. Salient features of the final design include thermal systems for selected packers, able to continuously maintain temperature over the 5year period; recirculation system to maintain the desired salinity in some packers; elaborate system for measurement and observation of upstream and downstream temperature and pressure in all tubes; a system for pressurizing the tubes (to 1000 psi) once the elastomers have swelled and sealed. Daily log of readings have been maintained over the last few months. Several months of testing has shown that packers exposed to low salinity and higher temperatures have sealed earlier, and water-swelling elastomers have sealed faster than oil-swelling ones. Three units have not sealed yet, one tube has desealed after initial sealing, one packer has shown seal failure after pressurizing, and two units are exhibiting good sealing under high pressure. Most of these results are in line with material behavior of swelling elastomers observed in earlier laboratory tests. The whole test battery will be monitored over five years, reporting seal temperatures, pressures, seal deterioration or failure, etc. This study can provide direct feedback to field engineers about the lasting capability of different elastomer types under various actual field conditions. This not-as-yetavailable information will be valuable in proper selection of swell packers, and may also help in improvement of packer design.
   However, failing when pressurized to 1000 psi suggests that this packer can be good for shallow-aquifer or similar wells where the pressure is not in excess of about 500 psi.
UT WOS:000350004500217
ER

PT J
AU Qiu, YF
   Zhang, MX
   Wang, YH
   Guo, X
   Shi, ZG
   Wang, HB
   Yu, X
AF Qiu, Yunfeng
   Zhang, Meixiang
   Wang, Yahui
   Guo, Xiao
   Shi, Zhiguo
   Wang, Haibo
   Yu, Xiang
TI Modeling and performance evaluation of a new multi-physical coupled
   system of photovoltaic-thermoelectric-interfacial evaporation
DE Photovoltaic; Interfacial evaporation;
   Photo-electric-thermal-interfacial evaporation; Output performance
ID SEAWATER
AB Interfacial evaporation, as an emerging seawater desalination technology, combines it with photovoltaic power generation technology and utilizes photovoltaic waste heat to drive interfacial evaporation, which is an effective measure for solving the problem of water and electricity shortage in off-grid island areas. Accurate calculations for different coupled forms of solar energy utilization systems are necessary to reduce the cost of preliminary experiments. In this paper, a coupled photo-electric-thermal-interfacial evaporation model is established based on photoelectric conversion model, heat transfer model, thermoelectric conversion model, and interfacial evaporation model, which is used to calculate the effects of meteorological parameters such as solar irradiance, ambient temperature, and ambient wind speed on the output performance of photovoltaic-interfacial evaporation and photovoltaic-thermoelectric-interfacial evaporation coupled systems, and experimental studies are carried out to validate the reliability of the model. The results show that the model has an average simulation error of 3.97 % for Photovoltaic module output power, 2.29 % for photovoltaic surface temperature, 6.11 % for thermoelectric generator output power, and 8.77 % for evaporation. Under the same conditions, the coupled photovoltaic-interfacial evaporation system has a lower net solar power generation efficiency than the coupled photovoltaic-thermoelectric-interfacial evaporation system but has a higher solar energy utilization and interfacial evaporation rate. As the emissivity of the photovoltaic surface increases, the net solar power generation efficiency of the system rises, but the interfacial evaporation rate and the utilization rate of solar energy of the system decrease. With the increase of output voltage of photovoltaic module, the net solar power generation efficiency and solar energy utilization rate of the system exhibit a trend of first increasing and then decreasing, while the interface evaporation rate of the system shows the change trend of first decreasing and then increasing.
UT WOS:001474256400001
ER

PT J
AU Nurlan, Z
   Zhukabayeva, T
   Othman, M
   Adamova, A
   Zhakiyev, N
AF Nurlan, Zhanserik
   Zhukabayeva, Tamara
   Othman, Mohamed
   Adamova, Aigul
   Zhakiyev, Nurkhat
TI Wireless Sensor Network as a Mesh: Vision and Challenges
DE Wireless sensor networks; Internet of Things; Topology; Receivers;
   Network topology; Monitoring; Mesh networks; IoT; wireless mesh network;
   wireless sensor network; wireless mesh sensor network
ID ARTIFICIAL-INTELLIGENCE; IOT DATA; EFFICIENT; INTERNET; THINGS;
   AVAILABILITY; CONNECTIVITY; PERFORMANCE; INTEGRITY; LOCATION
AB Nowadays, network technologies are developing very rapidly. The growing volume of transmitted information (video, data, VoIP, etc.), the physical growth of networks, and inter-network traffic are forcing manufacturers to produce more powerful and "smart" devices that use new methods of transferring and sorting data. Such connected smart devices (IoT) are used in intelligently controlled traffic for self-driving vehicles in Vehicle Adhoc Networks (VANET), in electricity and water in smart cities, and in-home automation in smart homes. These types of connected Internet of Things (IoT) devices are used to leverage different types of network structures. Such IoT sensor devices can be deployed as a wireless sensor network (WSN) in a mesh topology. Both WSNs and Wireless Mesh Networks (WMNs) are easy to organize as well as to deploy. In this case, there are many reasons for combining these different types of networks. In particular, the detailed sensory capabilities of sensor networks may be improved by increasing bandwidth, reliability and power consumption in the mesh topology. However, there are currently only a handful of studies devoting to integrate these two different types of networks. In addition, there is no systematic review of existing interconnection methods. That is why in this article we explore the existing methods of these two networks and provide an analytical basis for their relationship. We introduce the definition of WSN and WMN and then look at some case studies. Afterward, we present several challenges and opportunities in the area of combined Wireless Mesh Sensor Network (WMSN) followed by a discussion on this interconnection through literature review and hope that this document will attract the attention of the community and inspire further research in this direction.
UT WOS:000739476800001
ER

PT J
AU Khalid, M
AF Khalid, Muhammad
TI A techno-economic framework for optimizing multi-area power dispatch in
   microgrids with tie-line constraints
DE Energy delivery; Sustainable energy design; Economical power dispatch;
   Renewable energy feasibility; Environmental analysis; Multi-vector
   energy systems; Optimization techniques
ID ECONOMIC-DISPATCH; ALGORITHM
AB Fuel-fired power plants are the primary electricity sources in Saudi Arabia. This investigation aims to reduce the overall costs and emissions of electricity production from thermal units operated by the Shuqaiq Water and Electricity Company. It also considers practical thermoelectric constraints, such as power losses, ramp-rate constraints, and environmental optimization functions, to align with the sustainability goals of Saudi Vision 2030. Optimizing electric energy delivery is crucial within an energy control center. The focus of this work is to develop an advanced computational technique that reduces reliance on fossil fuels and minimizes the production cost of electricity, while also considering environmental emissions as an optimization function. An examination was conducted through two distinct practical case studies with power demand of 850 MW-one involving renewable sources and the other without-to assess the effectiveness of the hybrid crow search and JAYA optimization algorithm in optimizing performance. This system includes a multi-area setup with limitations on the tie-line power flow constraints. Additionally, the study also involved RETScreen modelling to assess the practical financial, emission, and benchmark analysis of a proposed integrated solar plant. This analyses offers a thorough assessment of the facility's performance and reliability in practical situations. This study serves as a motivating factor for energy operators, stakeholders, governmental organizations, and grid administrators to invest resources in environmentally-friendly initiatives. The simulation results showed that the proposed approach successfully reduced the electricity cost by 2.29% and 3.70% in hybrid energy networks while effectively handling the system constraints. In addition, the analysis revealed that the optimization algorithm effectively decreased toxic emissions from power plants while also supporting the sustainability objectives of United Nations SDG-7 and Saudi Vision 2030 through the successful integration of renewable sources.
UT WOS:001270215000001
ER

PT J
AU Kumar, KR
   Chaitanya, NVVK
   Natarajan, SK
AF Kumar, K. Ravi
   Chaitanya, N. V. V. Krishna
   Natarajan, Sendhil Kumar
TI Solar thermal energy technologies and its applications for process
   heating and power generation - A review
DE Solar thermal energy systems; Industrial process heat; Solar steam
   augmentation; Enhanced oil recovery
ID INDUSTRIAL-PROCESS HEAT; PARABOLIC DISH COLLECTOR; PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS;
   RENEWABLE ENERGY; HIGH-TEMPERATURE; CAVITY RECEIVER; PAPER-INDUSTRY;
   DESIGN; SIMULATION; EFFICIENCY
AB The industrial sector accounts for more than 54% of the total energy produced in the world with a predicted annual growth of 1.2%. Currently, most of the industrial sectors use fossil fuels to meet their heat energy requirements and it can be replaced by renewable energy resources particularly solar energy. In this article, an extensive review of various solar thermal energy technologies and their industrial applications are presented. The following industries are covered: power generation, oil and gas, pulp & paper, textile, food processing & beverage, pharmaceutical, leather, automotive, and metal industries. For each of the applications, quality and quantity of heat requirements are identified. Though all the applications are consuming heat in the form of steam/hot water, power plant and enhanced oil recovery have huge potential for solar steam augmentation as compared to other applications. Similarly, applications such as petroleum refining, pulp & paper, and rice mill require a huge amount of steam/hot water. The process heat requirements for textile, food & beverage, pharmaceutical, leather, and automotive industries are at a lower temperature. The integration of solar thermal energy systems with the industrial processes mainly depends on the local solar radiation, availability of land, conventional fuel prices, quality of steam required, and flexibility of system integration with the existing process. Furthermore, challenges involved in the integration of solar thermal energy systems with the process heat industries are explored along with the economics. The future outlook has been proposed to overcome the challenges involved in the integration. (C) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000608911500010
ER

PT J
AU Bastiaansen, JAM
   Stuber, M
AF Bastiaansen, Jessica A. M.
   Stuber, Matthias
TI Flexible water excitation for fat-free MRI at 3T using lipid insensitive
   binomial off-resonant RF excitation (LIBRE) pulses
DE MRI; water excitation; fat suppression
ID NUCLEAR-MAGNETIC-RESONANCE; SUPPRESSION; PHASE; SEPARATION; PROTON;
   IDEAL
AB PurposeTo develop a robust and flexible low power water excitation pulse that enables effective fat suppression at high magnetic field strength.
   MethodsA water excitation method that uses spatially non-selective pulses was optimized in numerical simulations, and implemented and tested in phantoms and healthy volunteers at 3T. The lipid insensitive binomial off-resonant excitation (LIBRE) pulse comprises two low power rectangular subpulses that have a variable frequency offset, phase offset and duration. The capability and extent of LIBRE fat suppression was quantitatively compared with conventional fat saturation (FS) and water excitation (WE) techniques.
   ResultsLIBRE enables simultaneous water excitation and near complete fat suppression in large volumes at 3T as demonstrated by numerical simulations, and experiments. In phantoms and in human subjects, the frequency responses matched well with those from the numerical simulation. Comparing FS and WE, LIBRE demonstrated an improved robustness to magnetic field inhomogeneities, and a much more effectively suppressed fat signal. This applied for a range of pulse durations and pulses as short as 1.4 ms.
   ConclusionA flexible water excitation method was developed that shows robust, near complete fat suppression at 3T. Magn Reson Med 79:3007-3017, 2018. (c) 2017 International Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine.
UT WOS:000426866400015
ER

PT J
AU Lafta, R
   Al-Nuaimi, M
   Sultan, LR
   Burnham, G
AF Lafta, R.
   Al-Nuaimi, M.
   Sultan, L. R.
   Burnham, G.
TI Household recovery in Mosul one year after the defeat of ISIS
DE Mosul; Iraq; War; ISIS; Recovery
AB Background Widespread devastation to structures and households in Mosul occurred during the three years of ISIS control and the military liberation campaign by Iraqi forces assisted by coalition forces. Military operations, particularly airstrikes, resulted in a greater loss of life than during ISIS control. In 2016/17, we assessed living circumstances in Mosul immediately following defeat of ISIS. In September 2018, we reassessed many of the same indicators in Mosul households to determine the extent of recovery. Methods For the 2018 survey, a random selection of 20 clusters were drawn from the 40 clusters surveyed in 2016/17. Of these 20 clusters, 12 were in east Mosul and 8 in west Mosul, the same proportion as the original survey. In each cluster, 30 households were interviewed. No households were included in both surveys. A team of four interviewers collected information using questions adapted from the 2016/17 questionnaire. Results Among the 3375 persons from the 600 households in the 2018 survey, there had been 18 deaths reported in the year since the end of ISIS control, a mortality rate of 6.1/1000 (CI95% [2.4-9.8]). This compares with a mortality rate of 30.7/1000 (CI95% [28.3-33.2]) during ISIS control and liberation. Fifteen deaths were from disease, one from a non-intentional injury and two deaths due to intentional violence. Damage to dwellings had been fully repaired in only 22 (5.5%) of houses, mostly in less damaged east Mosul. Dramatic improvements in access to water and electricity have occurred, with three quarters of households reporting uninterrupted access to both. The previously reported large number of early marriages among household members stopped with the departure of ISIS. Of the 31 household marriages reported over a 12-month follow on study, 6 (19.4%) involved a female member of the household. This compares with 131 household males and 688 household females married during ISIS occupation. If marriages had continued at the same rate as for ISIS years during our one-year follow-on study, there would have been and expected 24 marriages of household males and 126 marriages of household females (OD 32.8, CI95%[10.5102.8]) p < 0.001. There were 657 children reported by households to be in primary school. However, by household listing there were only 380 of children in the usual primary school age range (6-11), suggesting older children are catching up on primary schooling missed during ISIS years. One report of physical violence between spouses occurred. By comparison, the adjusted number of reported violent spousal events during ISIS control and military action would have been 72.7 (OR 316.7, CI95% [44.42259.9]), p < 0.001. Reported complications of pregnancy also declined (OR 10.3, CI95% [5.4,19.4], p < 0.001. Conclusions Substantial improvements in household measures have occurred since the end of ISIS control and military action, though much remains for full recovery. Many household members are now employed, primary school attendance is high and early marriage of girls was not found. There are fewer reported complications of pregnancy than in the previous study.
UT WOS:000512761300001
ER

PT J
AU Yin, JQ
   Yu, ZT
   Zhang, CH
   Tian, ML
   Han, JT
AF Yin, Jiqiang
   Yu, Zeting
   Zhang, Chenghui
   Tian, Minli
   Han, Jitian
TI Thermodynamic analysis of a novel combined cooling and power system
   driven by low-grade heat sources
DE Ammonia-water mixture; Thermodynamic analysis; Combined cooling and
   power system; Absorption-ejector refrigeration cycle
ID KALINA CYCLE; EJECTOR PERFORMANCE; REFRIGERATION; WATER; GENERATION;
   OPTIMIZATION; COGENERATION; PROPOSAL; EXERGY; PLANT
AB A novel combined cooling and power system which combines a conventional ammonia-water power/ cooling cycle named Goswami cycle and an ejector refrigeration cycle is proposed and investigated. This new combined system can improve the refrigerating capacity of the conventional power cooling system, and it can also adjust the cooling capacity to power ratio by changing the proportion of the ammonia-water flow into the turbine and the ejector. A mathematical model is developed to study the system performance. It is shown that under the given conditions the combined thermal efficiency and the combined exergy efficiency are 17.49% and 26.15%, respectively. The exergy analysis shows that the exergy destruction mainly occurs in the recovery heat exchanger, followed by boiler and rectifier, respectively. Parametric study shows that the absorber temperature, the cycle highest pressure and low pressure, the boiler temperature and the split ratio have significant effects on the net work output, the cooling capacity, the combined thermal efficiency and the combined exergy efficiency. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000437073600027
ER

PT J
AU Traisak, O
   Kumar, P
   Das, RK
   Vahaji, S
   Zhang, YH
   Velankar, V
   Date, A
AF Traisak, Oranit
   Kumar, Pranjal
   Das, Ratan Kumar
   Vahaji, Sara
   Zhang, Yihe
   Velankar, Varun
   Date, Abhijit
TI Integrated Thermoelectric Power Generation and Membrane-Based Water
   Desalination Using Low-Grade Thermal Energy
DE thermoelectric generator (TEG); direct contact membrane distillation
   (DCMD); low temperature heat sources
ID PERFORMANCE; SEAWATER; SYSTEMS
AB This study experimentally investigates a novel hybrid system integrating thermoelectric generators (TEGs) with direct contact membrane distillation (DCMD) for simultaneous low-grade heat recovery, electricity generation, and water desalination. Commercial TEG modules were sandwiched between heat spreaders to transfer thermal energy from a source (approx. 140 degrees C) to a cooling sink, driving saline water evaporation through a hydrophobic membrane. A validated mathematical model showed strong agreement with the experimental results. The system achieved freshwater mass fluxes of 8-9.5 kg/m2/h and electrical power outputs density of 25-35 W/m2. Increasing heat input (450-700 W) significantly enhanced freshwater production and electrical output, improving the Gain Output Ratio (GOR) and reducing Specific Energy Consumption (SEC). While higher feed salinity (up to 35,000 ppm) measurably declined mass flux and thermal efficiency, thermoelectric generation and thermal resistance remained largely unaffected. Energy and exergy efficiencies showed moderate sensitivity to operating conditions, while the Water-Electrical Energy Cogeneration Index (WEeCI) increased at high salinity, highlighting the robust contribution of electricity generation. These results demonstrate the potential of the TEG-DCMD system for the sustainable co-generation of water and power from industrial waste heat or renewable thermal sources.
UT WOS:001700083100001
ER

PT J
AU Caicedo, DLT
   Torres, MS
   Mero-Benavides, M
   Lopez, OP
   Medina, AL
   Marigorta, AMB
AF Caicedo, Diana L. Tinoco L.
   Torres, Myrian Santos
   Mero-Benavides, Medelyne
   Lopez, Oscar Patino
   Medina, Alexis Lozano
   Marigorta, Ana M. Blanco M.
TI Simulation and Exergoeconomic Analysis of a Trigeneration System Based
   on Biofuels from Spent Coffee Grounds
DE syngas; biomass; spent coffee grounds; trigeneration system; exergy
   destruction cost rate
ID NATURAL-GAS; CCHP SYSTEM; BIOMASS; EXERGY; HEAT; GASIFICATION; ENERGY;
   FUEL; OPTIMIZATION; RECOVERY
AB Biofuels have become a source of renewable energy to offset the use of fossil fuels and meet the demand for electricity, heat, and cooling in the industrial sector. This study aims to (a) develop a simulation of a trigeneration system based on a gas turbine cycle and an absorption chiller unit, using biomass and syngas from spent coffee grounds (SCGs) to replace the conventional system currently supplying the energy requirements of an instant coffee plant located in Guayaquil, Ecuador, and (b) carry out an exergoeconomic analysis of the simulated system to compare the effects of different fuels. The results showed an increase in the exergetic efficiency from 51.9% to 84.5% when using a trigeneration system based on biomass instead of the conventional non-integrated system. Furthermore, the biomass-based system was found to have the lowest operating costs ($154.7/h) and the lowest heating, cooling, and power costs ($10.3/GJ, $20.2/GJ, and $23.4/GJ, respectively). Therefore, the results of this analysis reveal that using SCGs as biofuel in this instant coffee plant is feasible for producing steam, chilled water, and power.
UT WOS:000938793100001
ER

PT C
AU Schoonenberg, WCH
   Farid, AM
AF Schoonenberg, Wester C. H.
   Farid, Amro M.
GP IEEE
TI Modeling Smart Cities with Hetero-functional Graph Theory
DE Hetero-functional Graph Theory; Infrastructure; Smart City; Axiomatic
   Design; Engineering Systems
ID SYSTEM RECONFIGURATION; AXIOMATIC DESIGN
AB In the 21st century, urbanization as a mega-trend will create many megacities. These highly dense, large population centers will have to efficiently deliver essential services including, energy, water, mobility, manufactured goods, and healthcare. While these services may be treated independently, they are in reality interdependent, especially as the need for efficient resource utilization, and consequently integration. This presents a formidable engineering challenge as the modeling foundations for these services have traditionally been discipline specific. Furthermore, efforts to integrate these modeling foundations have often adopted simplifying constraints which have limited applicability to the emerging challenge of smart cities. This paper collates an emerging "hetero-functional graph theory" for potential application to integrated smart city infrastructure models. It has been recently demonstrated in several application domains. The paper concludes with the construction of a hetero-functional graph for a smart city model consisting of an integrated electricity, water, and transportation system. Such a graph has the potential for dynamic modeling, resilience analysis, and integrated decision-making.
UT WOS:000427598701113
ER

PT J
AU Pandey, N
   Naresh, Y
AF Pandey, Nagendra
   Naresh, Y.
TI Experimental study on the synergistic effects of phase change material,
   fins, and ultrasonic fogger in a pyramidal solar still
DE Pyramid solar still; Solar desalination; PCM; Fins; Energy; Exergy
ID HEAT-RECOVERY; PERFORMANCE; ENERGY; ENHANCEMENT; NANOFLUIDS
AB Solar desalination emerges as a promising solution to extract potable water from brackish sources in arid regions facing challenges of clean, drinkable water and electricity. This study conducted energy, exergy, and economic analyses of a novel pyramidal solar still (PSS) incorporating an ultrasonic fogger, Phase Change Material (PCM), and fins. The results were compared with those from a solar still equipped with only fins and PCM, as well as a conventional solar still. Three different experimental setups were designed and fabricated: Case I - Conventional Pyramidal Solar Still (CPSS), Case II - SS with PCM, fins, and ultrasonic fogger (MPSS1), and Case III - SS with PCM and fins (MPSS2). Experiments were conducted in Surat city of Gujarat, India, in March 2024, utilizing Lauric acid as the PCM for energy storage and aluminum fins in the absorbing basin. The obtained results demonstrated a remarkable improvement in total accumulated productivity, with MPSS1 (6.07 l/m2) and MPSS2 (4.45 l/m2) showing enhancements of 143.78 % and 78.71 %, respectively, compared to CPSS. MPSS1 exhibited superior energy efficiency of 44 %, with enhancements of 41 % and 57 % compared to MPSS2 and CPSS. Furthermore, the enhancement in exergy efficiency in MPSS1 was 61.60 % and 89.67 % compared to MPSS2 and CPSS, respectively. Economic analysis revealed that the Cost per Liter (CPL) of freshwater for MPSS1, MPSS2, and CPSS was $0.010, $0.014, and $0.019, respectively. This indicates reductions of up to 28.57 % and 47.36 % for MPSS1 compared to MPSS2 and CPSS, respectively. Additionally, CPL for MPSS2 showcased a reduction of 26.31 % compared to CPSS. The payback period for MPSS1 decreased by 23.57 % and 44.37 % compared to MPSS2 and CPSS, respectively. The novel experimental setup (MPSS1) is advantageous for efficient desalination in potable water scarcity regions.
UT WOS:001283687200001
ER

PT J
AU Sevillano, M
   Vosloo, S
   Cotto, I
   Dai, ZH
   Jiang, T
   Santana, JMS
   Padilla, IY
   Rosario-Pabon, Z
   Vega, CV
   Cordero, JF
   Alshawabkeh, A
   Gu, A
   Pinto, AJ
AF Sevillano, Maria
   Vosloo, Solize
   Cotto, Irmarie
   Dai, Zihan
   Jiang, Tao
   Santana, Jose M. Santiago
   Padilla, Ingrid Y.
   Rosario-Pabon, Zaira
   Vega, Carmen Velez
   Cordero, Jose F.
   Alshawabkeh, Akram
   Gu, April
   Pinto, Ameet J.
TI Spatial-temporal targeted and non-targeted surveys to assess
   microbiological composition of drinking water in Puerto Rico following
   Hurricane Maria
DE Drinking water quality; Hurricane Maria; Metagenomics; qPCR;
   Genome-resolved metagenomics
ID PSEUDOMONAS-AERUGINOSA; MYCOBACTERIUM SPP.; LEGIONELLA SPP.; AMEBA
   HOSTS; NEW-ORLEANS; TAP-WATER; DIVERSITY; TOOL; LA
AB Loss of basic utilities, such as drinking water and electricity distribution, were sustained for months in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria's (HM) landfall in Puerto Rico (PR) in September 2017. The goal of this study was to assess if there was deterioration in biological quality of drinking water due to these disruptions. This study characterized the microbial composition of drinking water following HM across nine drinking water systems (DWSs) in PR and utilized an extended temporal sampling campaign to determine if changes in the drinking water microbiome were indicative of HM associated disturbance followed by recovery. In addition to monitoring water chemistry, the samples were subjected to culture independent targeted and non-targeted microbial analysis including quantitative PCR (qPCR) and genome-resolved metagenomics. The qPCR results showed that residual disinfectant was the major driver of bacterial concentrations in tap water with marked decrease in concentrations from early to late sampling timepoints. While Mycobacterium avium and Pseudomonas aeruginosa were not detected in any sampling locations and timepoints, genetic material from Leptospira and Legionella pneumophila were transiently detected in a few sampling locations. The majority of metagenome assembled genomes (MAGs) recovered from these samples were not associated with pathogens and were consistent with bacterial community members routinely detected in DWSs. Further, whole metagenome-level comparisons between drinking water samples collected in this study with samples from other full-scale DWS indicated no significant deviation from expected community membership of the drinking water microbiome. Overall, our results suggest that disruptions due to HM did not result in significant and sustained deterioration of biological quality of drinking water at our study sites.
UT WOS:000709478700003
ER

PT J
AU Grant, S
   Blom, AW
   Whitehouse, MR
   Craddock, I
   Judge, A
   Tonkin, EL
   Gooberman-Hill, R
AF Grant, Sabrina
   Blom, A. W.
   Whitehouse, Michael R.
   Craddock, Ian
   Judge, Andrew
   Tonkin, Emma L.
   Gooberman-Hill, Rachael
TI Using home sensing technology to assess outcome and recovery after hip
   and knee replacement in the UK: the HEmiSPHERE study protocol
DE health informatics; adult orthopaedics; hip; knee
ID QUESTIONNAIRE; ARTHROPLASTY; PERCEPTIONS; EUROQOL
AB Introduction Over 160 000 people with severe hip or knee pain caused by osteoarthritis undergo total hip (THR) or knee replacement (TKR) surgery each year in the UK within the National Health Service (NHS), and this number is expected to increase. Innovative approaches to evaluating surgical outcomes will be needed to respond to the increasing burden of joint replacement surgery. The Sensor Platform for Healthcare in a Residential Environment, Interdisciplinary Research Collaboration (SPHERE-IRC) have developed a system of sensors that can monitor the health-related behaviours of people living at home. The system includes sensors for the home environment (measuring temperature, humidity, room occupancy, water and electricity usage), a wristband body-worn activity monitor and silhouette (body outline) sensors. The aim of HEmiSPHERE (Hip and knEe study of a Sensor Platform of HEalthcare in a Residential Environment) is to (1) determine the accuracy and feasibility of the sensory data as it compares with conventional assessment of health outcomes after surgery using patient self-reported questionnaires, and (2) to explore how the SPHERE system is useful for everyday clinical decision-making.
   Methods and analysis A feasibility study recruiting and installing the SPHERE system in the homes of up to 30 NHS adult patients as they undergo a THR or TKR. Through a mixed-methods design, the SPHERE system will monitor and record continuous measurements of daily behaviour. Main outcomes will assess the relationships between environmental, behavioural and movement data and the parameters of interest from the standard clinical assessments measuring patient outcomes over time. Patient interviews and focus groups with consultant orthopaedic surgeons will provide in-depth understanding of the acceptability, feasibility and accuracy of the data.
   Ethics and dissemination We aim to disseminate the findings through regional talks and seminars, international conferences and peer-reviewed journals and social media.
UT WOS:000446181900170
ER

PT J
AU Dobson, S
   Hutchison, D
   Mauthe, A
   Schaeffer, A
   Smith, P
   Sterbenz, JPG
AF Dobson, Simon
   Hutchison, David
   Mauthe, Andreas
   Schaeffer-Filho, Alberto
   Smith, Paul
   Sterbenz, James P. G.
TI Self-Organization and Resilience for Networked Systems: Design
   Principles and Open Research Issues
DE Autonomic communications; network resilience; programmable networks;
   self-organization; system resilience
ID SURVIVABILITY; MANAGEMENT; STRATEGIES; REDUNDANCY; DIVERSITY; FRAMEWORK;
   SECURITY; INTERNET
AB Networked systems form the backbone of modern society, underpinning critical infrastructures such as electricity, water, transport and commerce, and other essential services (e.g., information, entertainment, and social networks). It is almost inconceivable to contemplate a future without even more dependence on them. Indeed, any unavailability of such critical systems is-even for short periods-a rather bleak prospect. However, due to their increasing size and complexity, they also require some means of autonomic formation and self-organization. This paper identifies the design principles and open research issues in the twin fields of self-organization and resilience for networked systems. In combination, they offer the prospect of combating threats and allowing essential services that run on networked systems to continue operating satisfactorily. This will be achieved, on the one hand, through the (self-)adaptation of networked systems and, on the other hand, through structural and operational resilience techniques to ensure that they can detect, defend against, and ultimately withstand challenges.
UT WOS:000463027200013
ER

PT C
AU Saurav, K
   Chandan, V
AF Saurav, Kumar
   Chandan, Vikas
GP ACM
TI Gray-Box Approach for Thermal Modelling of Buildings for Applications in
   District Heating and Cooling Networks
DE District-heating-and-cooling-system; Gray-box modelling; Optimization;
   Energy efficiency
AB District-heating-and-cooling (DHC) systems are a proven energy solution that has been deployed for many years in a growing number of urban areas worldwide. They comprise a variety of technologies that seek to develop synergies between the production and supply of heat, cooling, domestic hot water and electricity. Although the benefits of DHC systems are significant and have been widely acclaimed, yet the full potential of modern DHC systems remains largely untapped. There are several opportunities for development of energy efficient DHC systems, which will enable the effective exploitation of alternative renewable resources, waste heat recovery, etc., in order to increase the overall efficiency and facilitate the transition towards the next generation of DHC systems. This motivated the need for modelling these complex systems.
   Large-scale modelling of DHC-networks is challenging, as it has several components such as buildings, pipes, valves, heating source, etc., interacting with each other. In this paper, we focus on building modelling. In particular, we present a gray-box methodology for thermal modelling of buildings. Gray-box modelling is a hybrid of data driven and physics based models where, coefficients of the equations from physics based models are learned using data. This approach allows us to capture the dynamics of the buildings more effectively as compared to pure data driven approach. Additionally, this approach results in a simpler models as compared to pure physics based models. We first develop the individual components of the building such as temperature evolution, flow controller, etc. These individual models are then integrated in to the complete gray-box model for the building. The model is validated using data collected from one of the buildings at Lulea, a city on the coast of northern Sweden.
UT WOS:000610411700045
ER

PT J
AU Hernández-Pérez, A
   de Arruda, PV
   Sene, L
   da Silva, SS
   Chandel, AK
   Felipe, MDD
AF Hernandez-Perez, Andres Felipe
   de Arruda, Priscila Vaz
   Sene, Luciane
   da Silva, Silvio Silverio
   Chandel, Anuj Kumar
   de Almeida Felipe, Maria das Gracas
TI Xylitol bioproduction: state-of-the-art, industrial paradigm shift, and
   opportunities for integrated biorefineries
DE Xylitol; biorefineries; lignocellulose; hemicellulose; xylose; process
   integration
ID BAGASSE HEMICELLULOSIC HYDROLYSATE; PENTOSE-PHOSPHATE PATHWAY; SPENT
   GRAIN HYDROLYSATE; ION-EXCHANGE-RESINS; SUGARCANE BAGASSE;
   CANDIDA-GUILLIERMONDII; SACCHAROMYCES-CEREVISIAE; BIOTECHNOLOGICAL
   PRODUCTION; XYLOSE REDUCTASE; FERMENTATIVE PRODUCTION
AB Recent advances in biomass conversion technologies have shown a promising future toward fermentation during xylitol production. Xylitol is one of the top 12 renewable added-value chemicals that can be obtained from biomass according to US Department of Energy (USDOE). Currently, xylitol accounts for approximately US$823.6 million of annual sales in the market, and this amount is expected to reach US$1.37 billion by 2025. This high demand has been achieved owing to the chemical conversion of hemicellulosic hydrolysates from different lignocellulosic biomasses, which is a costly and non-ecofriendly process. Xylose-rich hemicellulosic hydrolysates are the major raw materials for xylitol production through either chemical or biotechnological routes. Economic production of a clean hemicellulosic hydrolysate is one of the major bottlenecks for xylitol production on the commercial scale. Advancements in biotechnology, such as the isolation of novel microorganisms, genetic manipulation of xylose metabolizing strains, and modifications in the fermentation process, can enhance the economic feasibility of xylitol production on the large scale. Furthermore, xylitol production in integrated biorefineries can be even more economic, given the readily available raw materials and the co-use of steam, electricity, and water, among others. Exploring new biotechnology techniques in integrated biorefineries would open new markets and opportunities for sustainable xylitol production to fulfill the market's growing demands for this sugar alcohol. This article is a review of the advancements reported in the whole biotechnological process for xylitol production, and involve pretreatment technologies, hemicellulosic hydrolysate preparation, xylose conversion into xylitol, and product recovery. Special attention is devoted to current metabolic engineering strategies to improve this bioprocess, as well as to the importance of xylitol production processes in biorefineries.
UT WOS:000478320100001
ER

PT J
AU Park, MY
   Shin, S
   Kim, ES
AF Park, Min Young
   Shin, Serin
   Kim, Eung Soo
TI Effective energy management by combining gas turbine cycles and forward
   osmosis desalination process
DE Gas turbine; Forward osmosis; Integration; Energy utilization
ID AMMONIA-CARBON DIOXIDE; DRAW SOLUTES; PERFORMANCE; MEMBRANE
AB In the recent years, attempts to improve the thermal efficiency of the gas turbine cycles have been made. In order to enhance the energy management of the gas turbine cycle, a new integration concept has been proposed: integration of gas turbine cycle and forward osmosis desalination process. The combination of the gas turbine cycle and the forward osmosis (FO) desalination process basically implies the coupling of the waste heat from the gas turbine cycle to the draw solute recovery system in the FO process which is the most energy consuming part of the whole FO process. By doing this, a strong system that is capable of producing water and electricity with very little waste heat can be achieved. The feasibility of this newly proposed system was analyzed using UNISIM program and the OLI property package. For the analysis, the thermolytic draw solutes which has been suggested by other research groups have been selected and studied. Sensitivity analysis was conducted on the integration system in order to understand and identify the key parameters of the integrated system. And the integrated system was further evaluated by comparing the gain output ratio (GOR) values with the conventional desalination technologies such as multi stage flash (MSF) and multi effect distillation (MED). The suggested integrated system was calculated to have a GOR of 14.8, while the MSF and MED when integrated to the gas turbine cycle showed GOR value of 12. It should also be noted that the energy utilization of the suggested integrated system is significantly higher by 27.1% and 63.8% than those of the MSF-gas turbine and MED-gas turbine systems, respectively. The noticeable enhancement in both the GOR and waste heat utilization of the suggested system resulted in 3.5 times higher water production rate than the MSF integrated system. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000359875100007
ER

PT J
AU Wang, ZX
   Wu, SM
   He, Z
AF Wang, Zixuan
   Wu, Simiao
   He, Zhen
TI Production of electricity and water in an osmotic microbial fuel cell by
   using EDTA-Na2 as a recoverable draw solute
DE Osmotic microbial fuel cell; Draw solute; EDTA; Bioelectricity; Water
   recovery; Forward osmosis
ID FILM COMPOSITE MEMBRANE; WASTE-WATER; OSMOSIS; EDTA; FLUX; GENERATION;
   SALT; PH; DESALINATION; PERFORMANCE
AB Osmotic microbial fuel cell (OsMFC) is an emerging biotechnology that integrates forward osmosis (FO) membrane into microbial fuel cells. Selection of an appropriate draw solute (DS) could affect both water extraction and electricity generation. Herein, we have investigated a promising DS - EDTA-Na-2, a widely used chelating agent. The OsMFC with the EDTA DS achieved 779.6 +/- 18.5C (electricity production) and 1.22 +/- 0.02 LMH (water flux), both of which were comparable to that with the NaCl DS at the same conductivity. However, the EDTA DS resulted in a significantly lower reverse solute flux (RSF) of 0.36 +/- 0.08 gMH and a lower catholyte pH that could ensure healthy operation of the tested FO membrane. The OsMIC with the EDTA DS exhibited a positive forward flux for Na+ ions, likely related to the effect of EDTA-Na complexion. Due to the lumping effects of EDTA dissociation equilibrium and membrane surface chemistry, a higher catholyte pH led to a higher water flux and reduced RSF, but lower electricity production. The cyclic voltarnmetry tests revealed that the reverse-fluxed EDTA species might have chelated Fe-II/III redox coupled to facilitate electron transfer on the anode surface, but the EDTA DS in the cathode could interfere with the cathodic reaction through assisting in metal wires oxidation. In the reuse test, >90% of EDTA DS could be recovered and then successfully reused in the subsequent OsMFC operation. The results of this study would encourage further exploration of using EDTA-based compounds as a draw solute for OsMFC applications. (C) 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000468191200035
ER

PT J
AU Cioccolanti, L
   Savoretti, A
   Renzi, M
   Caresana, F
   Comodi, G
AF Cioccolanti, Luca
   Savoretti, Andrea
   Renzi, Massimiliano
   Caresana, Flavio
   Comodi, Gabriele
TI Design and test of a single effect thermal desalination plant using
   waste heat from m-CHP units
DE Stirling engine; Heat recovery; Energy water nexus; Fresh water
   production; Prototype apparatus
ID SALT CONCENTRATION; MICRO-CHP; ENERGY; COGENERATION; DISTILLATION;
   OPTIMIZATION; TEMPERATURE; ELECTRICITY; SIMULATION; SYSTEMS
AB This work refers to an innovative integrated system for the simultaneous production of fresh water and electricity. In particular, a I kWe Stirling engine coupled with a thermal desalination plant has been considered for the purpose. The prototype, which refers to the distributed micro cogeneration field, has the final aim of building and testing a single effect distillation plant with a fresh water production of about 150 L/d.
   Firstly, thermodynamic theories and numerical analysis have been carried out to define the final prototype configuration. Then, an experimental test phase has been carried out to evaluate the actual plant performance.
   The experimental analysis has been in good agreement with the predicted results. In particular, at nominal operating conditions (@50 degrees C) the maximum heat transfer rate was higher than the evaporator heat exchanger designed condition (5.5 kWt). Despite the non-ideal plant thermal insulation, fresh water production reached a maximum of about 7 L/h at best operating conditions, proving a good process efficiency. According to the behavior predicted by the model, fresh water production is strongly dependent on the temperature difference between the heating fluid and the salt water in the evaporator tank while it is weakly influenced by the salt content of the treated water. Moreover, the apparatus exhibited a very good response to varying thermal power input thus confirming the opportunity to feed the desalination plant also with different forms of waste heat. More precisely, the plant average efficiency was about 1.3 L/kWh of energy input with minimum and maximum values equal to 1.16 and 1.42 L/kWh.
   Definitely the proposed solution, studied for a coupling with a 1 kWe Stirling engine, can be easily applied also to the other micro-CHP technologies. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000353729800003
ER

PT J
AU Parel, TS
   Rotaru, MD
   Sykulski, JK
   Hearn, GE
AF Parel, Thomas S.
   Rotaru, Mihai D.
   Sykulski, Jan K.
   Hearn, Grant E.
TI Optimisation of a tubular linear machine with permanent magnets for wave
   energy extraction
DE Generators; Energy sources; Water power
AB Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to optimise the cost-based performance of a tubular linear generator and to minimise cogging forces.
   Design/methodology/approach - Optimisation of a tubular linear generator with longitudinal flux topology has been undertaken using a finite element method. The computational models used have been verified experimentally.
   Findings - The use of an oversized stator linear generator design as opposed to an oversized translator design has the potential to increase the output electromotive force per unit material cost by 25 per cent for slotless iron core topologies and approximately 14 per cent for air core topologies. For cogging force minimisation, optimisation of the length of the stator core is an effective technique for both oversized stator and oversized translator constructions. Comparisons of magnet materials also indicate that the higher cost of rare earth magnets to ferrites is compensated by their superior specific performances.
   Originality/value - In this paper, a broader range of design parameters than in previous investigations has been optimised for the slotless iron core and air core topologies. The result relating to cogging force reduction and cost savings (in particular) has the potential to make direct drive wave energy extraction a more competitive technology in terms of reliability and cost.
UT WOS:000292715900021
ER

PT J
AU Sun, L
   Liu, ZG
   Guo, XQ
   Wang, XC
   Wang, LC
AF Sun, Le
   Liu, Zhaoguo
   Guo, Xiaoqiang
   Wang, Xiaochen
   Wang, Lichong
TI Multi-Phase Stacked Interleaved Buck Converter for Hydrogen-Production
   Electrolysis with Low-Voltage-Stress Ripple Compensation Circuit
DE Buck converters; Topology; Stress; Heating systems; Reliability; Power
   supplies; Costs; Current ripple elimination; low voltage stress;
   multicarrier energy system; stacked interleaved buck converter
ID DC-DC CONVERTER; HIGH-EFFICIENCY; TOPOLOGIES; MODEL
AB A multi-phase stacked interleaved buck converter (SIBC) is suitable for large-power water electrolysis applications due to its merits of high current output capability and zero output current ripple. However, the auxiliary converter used to compensate for the current ripple still has to withstand high voltage stress. This paper proposes a new multi-phase SIBC applied in the multicarrier energy system integrating electricity, heat, and hydrogen. A resistor-capacitor voltage divider is used to provide the input voltage of the auxiliary converter and as a heater for the thermal loads. Thus, the voltage stress of the auxiliary converter can be reduced at a low cost, and the size of the filter inductor can be reduced. With accurate voltage and current analysis and appropriate parameter design, the voltage stresses of both the switches and capacitors in the auxiliary converter can be further limited within an expected range. The experimental results verify the correctness of the topology, modulation, analysis, and design methods. A comparison with the conventional method is made in terms of cost, volume, and efficiency to show the advantages of the proposed method.
UT WOS:001690715700021
ER

PT J
AU Chrisandina, NJ
   Deshpande, AA
   Al-Fadhli, FM
   Iakovou, E
   El-Halwagi, MM
   Pistikopoulos, EN
AF Chrisandina, Natasha J.
   Deshpande, Aovi A.
   Al-Fadhli, Fahad M.
   Iakovou, Eleftherios
   El-Halwagi, Mahmoud M.
   Pistikopoulos, Efstratios N.
TI Integration of risk, flexibility, and resilience in the optimization of
   water-energy nexus
DE flexibility analysis; multi-objective optimization; resilience; risk
   assessment; water-energy nexus
ID SEAWATER DESALINATION; POWER; FEASIBILITY; PERFORMANCE; MANAGEMENT;
   DESIGN; UNCERTAINTY; CHALLENGES; EFFICIENCY; INDEX
AB Co-location of power plants and desalination systems allows for a reduction in operational expense through energy integration. Furthermore, augmenting fossil-based power plants with solar energy provides a means of reducing the carbon footprint of electricity generation. It is also critical to protect the combined energy-water system against internal and external risk factors to maintain a reliable supply of both electricity and water. Therefore, a systematic approach for assessing and mitigating risks is needed. Because of the complex water-energy interactions, a superstructure representation is created and a quantitative risk assessment is conducted to show potential risk factors that target specific sub-systems. A surrogate model of the flexibility index analysis is built in order to optimize the superstructure for both cost and flexibility objectives. Finally, the generated design is simulated against disruption scenarios to obtain its resilience against various risk factors. This approach is applied to a case study on the Kuwait water-energy plant to show how the developed approach can help decision-makers create operational strategies to protect against risk in a cost-effective manner.
UT WOS:001228350600001
ER

PT J
AU Esfahani, SMJ
   Mahdei, KN
   Saadi, H
   Dourandish, A
AF Esfahani, S. M. J.
   Mahdei, K. Naderi
   Saadi, H.
   Dourandish, A.
TI Efficiency and Sustainability of Silage Corn Production by Data
   Envelopment Analysis and Multi-Functional Ecological Footprint: Evidence
   from Sarayan County, Iran
DE Ecological footprint; Efficiency; Silage corn; Sustainability
ID GREENHOUSE-GAS EMISSIONS; LIFE-CYCLE ASSESSMENT; ENERGY USE EFFICIENCY;
   DECISION-MAKING UNITS; ENVIRONMENTAL-IMPACT ASSESSMENT; FRUIT PRODUCTION
   SYSTEMS; PADDY PRODUCTION; WHEAT PRODUCTION; FARMING SYSTEMS; GHG
   EMISSIONS
AB The Ecological Footprint (EF) is used to understand the relationship between human activities and pressure on land and its resources. The present study combined multifunctional ecological footprint with Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA) to estimate environmental impacts of inefficient use of resources of silage corn production in the Sarayan County, Iran. In this applied survey research, data were collected using a questionnaire accompanied by face-to-face interviews with 42 farmers (N=48). Validity of the instrument was approved by a panel of experts; while its reliability was secured via pretest-posttest method. Results showed that mean technical efficiency, pure technical efficiency and scale efficiency were 0.86, 0.93, and 0.80; respectively. The CO2 footprints were 0.95 and 0.83 gha under current and optimum conditions; respectively, with electricity and manure comprising the highest and lowest shares. The Ecological footprint land- (gha gha(-1) farm), yield- (gha ton(-1)) and revenue-based (gha $(-1) 1,000) EFs were estimated to be 1.6, 0.84, and 1.4 under current conditions but 1.57, 0.081, and 1.33 under optimum conditions, respectively. When the resources were used efficiently, the EFCO2 and EF improved by 13.42 and 3.35% respectively, in which the highest shares in terms of quantity and percentage belonged to electricity, manure and fertilizer. Findings implied that optimum usage of electricity and fertilizer could play a significant role in mitigating environmental impacts of silage corn production in Sarayan. Local agricultural extension should focus on introduction of innovative irrigation systems to reduce water, electricity and fertilizer consumption. Meanwhile, to improve silage corn efficiency, farm size expansion is recommended based on the DEA findings.
UT WOS:000424077200002
ER

PT J
AU Rehman, MU
   Butt, AQ
   Shangguan, DH
   Waseem, M
   Shah, SA
   Ali, M
   Butt, FK
   Muhammad, A
   Khan, AA
   Ali, S
AF Rehman, Muneeb Ur
   Butt, Asim Qayyum
   Shangguan, Donghui
   Waseem, Muhammad
   Shah, Sabab Ali
   Ali, Mustajab
   Butt, Faizan Khalid
   Muhammad, Ali
   Khan, Amjad Ali
   Ali, Shuban
TI Climate change impacts on snow cover dynamics and hydrological regimes
   in the Chitral River Basin, Pakistan
DE climate change; hydrology; hydro-meteorological parameters; snow-covered
   area (SCA); Snowmelt Runoff Model (SRM); weather extremes
ID WATER; FLOW
AB A significant portion of Pakistan's snow accumulation occurs within the Indus Basin watershed. In the Upper Indus Basin, river discharge is primarily driven by a combination of glacier and snowmelt. Snowmelt contribution to runoff is particularly crucial in mountainous regions, making accurate estimation of snowmelt runoff essential for effective water resource management in Pakistan. This study assesses hydro-meteorological parameters in the Chitral catchment using historical data from the Pakistan Meteorological Department and the Water and Power Development Authority. It analyzes their impact on the snow-covered area (SCA). The Snowmelt Runoff Model was applied to evaluate the hydrological response of the snow-fed catchment to climatic variations. Findings indicate that during the historical period (1981-2015), the maximum temperature (T-max) increased by 0.20 degrees C per decade, while the minimum temperature (T-min) declined by 0.02 degrees C per decade. Annual precipitation increased by approximately 39.2 mm per decade. Streamflow in the catchment rose by 10.93% over the 1991-2015 period, likely due to rising temperatures and enhanced summer monsoon precipitation. Average SCA showed seasonal variation, with an approximately 26% increase in winter and a 27% decrease in summer. Analysis of hydrological and climatological data from the Chitral basin revealed strong correlations among SCA, temperature, and streamflow, highlighting the basin's dependence on snow and glacier melt. Understanding the impacts of climate change is therefore essential for water resource management, particularly in a country like Pakistan, where diverse climatic conditions amplify vulnerability to climate variability.
UT WOS:001770409700001
ER

PT J
AU Guo, XR
   Ming, B
   Cheng, L
   Yu, M
   San, MY
   Jurasz, J
AF Guo, Xiaoru
   Ming, Bo
   Cheng, Long
   Yu, Miao
   San, Meiying
   Jurasz, Jakub
TI Modelling long-term operational dynamics of grid-connected hydro-
   photovoltaic hybrid systems
DE Hydropower; Variable energy sources; Hybrid generation system;
   Performance evaluation
ID POWER; INTEGRATION; GENERATION; RESERVOIR; STORAGE; PLANT
AB The development of variable renewable energy sources (VRESs), such as wind and solar photovoltaic (PV), has become a strategic choice for ensuring the security of electricity supplies and the decarbonization of power systems. The hybridization of hydropower with VRESs is an important measure for guaranteeing the smooth and cost-effective integration of VRESs into the power system. However, the highly variable weather- and climatedriven spatial and temporal fluctuations in VRES performance have significant potential to affect the optimal trajectory of hydropower operations. Therefore, it is essential to understand how hydropower responds to VRESs over long-term horizons, thereby allowing informed operation decisions to be made for hybrid generation systems (HGSs). In this study, a long- and short-term nested operation model is developed for hydropower operations considering PV integration. Specifically, the long-term model determines the day-by-day hydropower production over many years, and the short-term model simulates the day-ahead generation scheduling and realtime operation processes of the HGS. Performance metrics are established for evaluating the complementary operation in comparison with separate operation of hydropower and PV plants. China's two representative hydroPV HGSs (Zhongyu and Longyangxia) are selected as case studies. The results indicate that the hybrid generation of hydropower and PV could, on average, increase total electricity generation by 11.33 %, reduce the load loss rate by 9.31 %, and decrease the PV curtailment rate by 36.60 %. However, hydro-PV hybridization may lead to an increase of 9.22 % in the water spillage rate and a decrease of 0.094 kWh/m3 in the water-electricity conversion coefficient. Therefore, hybrid generation of hydropower and PV could further enhance energy yield and supply reliability. Also, the importance of improving hydropower flexibility is highlighted.
UT WOS:001301515100001
ER

PT J
AU Kai, Y
   Kitayama, Y
   Omiya, M
   Uchiyama, T
   Kumei, H
AF Kai, Yusuke
   Kitayama, Yuki
   Omiya, Masaki
   Uchiyama, Tomoaki
   Kumei, Hideyuki
TI In Situ Observation of Deformation Behavior of Membrane Electrode
   Assembly Under Humidity Cycles
ID PROTON-EXCHANGE MEMBRANES; BUCKLING DEFORMATION; HIGH-TEMPERATURE;
   FUEL-CELL; DURABILITY; TESTS
AB The mechanical reliability of the membrane electrode assembly (MEA) in polymer electrolyte fuel cells (PEFCs) is a major concern with respect to fuel cell vehicles. When PEFCs generate power, water is generated. The proton exchange membrane (PEM) swells in wet conditions and shrinks in dry conditions. These cyclic conditions induce mechanical stress in the MEA, and cracks are formed. Failure of the MEA can result in leaking of fuel gases and reduced output power. Therefore, it is necessary to determine the mechanical reliability of the MEA under various mechanical and environmental conditions. The purpose of the present paper is to observe the deformation behavior of the MEA under humidity cycles. We have developed a device in which the constrained condition of the GDL is modeled by carbon bars of 100 to 500 mu m in diameter. The carbon bars are placed side by side and are pressed against the MEA. The device was placed in a temperature and humidity controlled chamber, and humidity cycles were applied to the specimen. During the tests, cross sections of the specimen were observed by microscope, and the strain was calculated based on the curvature of the specimen. The temperature in the test chamber was varied from 25 to 80 degrees C, and the relative humidity was varied from 50 to 100%RH, and the wet condition was also investigated. The results revealed that the MEA deformed significantly by swelling and residual deformation was observed under the dry condition, even for one humidity cycle. The crack formation criteria for one humidity cycle corresponded approximately with those of the static tensile tests. The results of the humidity cycle tests followed Coffin-Manson law, and the number of cycles until crack formation corresponded approximately with the results of the mechanical fatigue tests. These results will be valuable in the critical design of durable PEFCs.
UT WOS:000342227900006
ER

PT J
AU Logan, TM
   Guikema, SD
AF Logan, Tom M.
   Guikema, Seth D.
TI Reframing Resilience: Equitable Access to Essential Services
DE Climate change; community resilience; natural hazards; social justice;
   spatial planning
ID COMMUNITY RESILIENCE; URBAN RESILIENCE; DISASTER RESILIENCE; PLANNING
   RECOVERY; DEFINITION; FRAMEWORK; SYSTEMS; INFRASTRUCTURE;
   SUSTAINABILITY; ACCESSIBILITY
AB We urgently need to put the concept of resilience into practice if we are to prepare our communities for climate change and exacerbated natural hazards. Yet, despite the extensive discussion surrounding community resilience, operationalizing the concept remains challenging. The dominant approaches for assessing resilience focus on either evaluating community characteristics or infrastructure functionality. While both remain useful, they have several limitations to their ability to provide actionable insight. More importantly, the current conceptualizations do not consider essential services or how access is impaired by hazards. We argue that people need access to services such as food, education, health care, and cultural amenities, in addition to water, power, sanitation, and communications, to get back some semblance of normal life. Providing equitable access to these types of services and quickly restoring that access following a disruption are paramount to community resilience. We propose a new conceptualization of community resilience that is based on access to essential services. This reframing of resilience facilitates a new measure of resilience that is spatially explicit and operational. Using two illustrative examples from the impacts of Hurricanes Florence and Michael, we demonstrate how decisionmakers and planners can use this framework to visualize the effect of a hazard and quantify resilience-enhancing interventions. This "equitable access to essentials" approach to community resilience integrates with spatial planning, and will enable communities not only to "bounce back" from a disruption, but to "bound forward" and improve the resilience and quality of life for all residents.
UT WOS:000531910700001
ER

PT J
AU Izadpanah, F
   Mokhtari, H
   Izadpanah, S
   Sadeghi, M
AF Izadpanah, F.
   Mokhtari, H.
   Izadpanah, S.
   Sadeghi, MS.
TI Optimization of cogeneration for power and desalination to satisfy the
   demand of water and power at high ambient temperatures
DE Inlet air-cooling; CGAM Problem; Multiple -Effect Desalination; Organic
   Rankine Cycle; Reverse Osmosis; Optimization
ID GAS-TURBINE CYCLE; INLET AIR; PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENT; MULTIOBJECTIVE
   OPTIMIZATION; THERMOECONOMIC ANALYSIS; 4E ANALYSIS; RANKINE-CYCLE;
   PLANT; SYSTEM; ENERGY
AB This paper evaluates the technical and economic aspects of allocating a portion of desalinated water that is produced in Multi-Effect Distillation (MED) and Organic Rankine-Reverse Osmosis (ORC-RO) cycles to inlet air-cooling of a Gas Turbine (GT). Cogeneration of power and desalinated water ensures the feasibility of internal air-cooling in a site with high ambient temperature and lack of access to a high-quality water resource. So, a long-lasting supply of desalinated water leads to a reduction in the risk of the non-feasible proposed design. The Genetic Algorithm (GA) is used because of the complexities of the concept such as determination of the pinch and approach temperatures of the Heat Recovery Steam Generator (HRSG) and Waste Heat Recovery (WHR), determination of the organic fluid, maintaining the power production and desalinated water at a constant rate in different ambient temperatures, production of desalinated water in the RO system with minimum concentration, and finally, cost reduction of desalinated water production and cooling system consuming make-up water. The results demonstrate that using GA leads to an increase in the net desalinated water production by the rate of 14 m(3)/h and the net power of the GT by about 2.05 MW. Besides, adding inlet air cooling to the main cycle leads to an increase in water production from 393.75 m(3)/h to 400.0 m(3)/h in the MED section and from 92.1 m(3)/h to 100.37 m(3)/h in the RO section. Furthermore, the thermal efficiency of the GT improved from 35.5 % to 36.1 %.
UT WOS:000861067700001
ER

PT J
AU Khanmohammadi, S
   Chaghakaboodi, HA
   Musharavati, F
AF Khanmohammadi, Shoaib
   Chaghakaboodi, Hooman Abdi
   Musharavati, Farayi
TI A new design of solar tower system amplified with a thermoelectric unit
   to produce distilled water and power
DE Exergy analysis; Heliostat; Solar tower; Freshwater; Reverse osmosis;
   Thermoelectric
ID ORGANIC RANKINE-CYCLE; WASTE HEAT-RECOVERY; EXERGY ANALYSIS; PERFORMANCE
   ANALYSIS; MULTIOBJECTIVE OPTIMIZATION; THERMODYNAMIC ANALYSIS; FLASH
   CYCLE; DESALINATION; ENERGY; BRAYTON
AB In this paper, a new design of a solar tower system boosted with a thermoelectric generator (TEG) for power generation and distilled water production, is proposed and investigated. The suggested system includes a solar tower unit with atmospheric air as heat transfer fluid, a helium Brayton cycle, two organic Rankin cycles (ORCs) with R-123 as working fluid, thermoelectric generator, and reverse osmosis (RO) desalination unit. The systems under investigation are the gas turbine-helium Brayton system (GT-HBS) as the primary system and the gas turbine-helium Brayton system integrated with TEG and RO (GT-HBS/TEG-RO) as the proposed system. A new aspect of the present work is the waste heat recovery using TEG modules to enhance the performance. Analysis indicates that the energy efficiency of GT-HBS and GT-HBS/TEG-RO systems is 43.88% and 62.44% and the exergy efficiency of GT-HBS/TEG-RO is 20.23 % higher than the GT-HBS. Additionally, the results show that employing TEGs in the primary system leads to the net output power, energy, and exergy efficiencies increment about 941 kW, 3.7%, and 5.28%, respectively. Based on the parametric analysis with an increasing inlet temperature of the gas turbine, the net output power, energy, and exergy efficiencies, and volume flow rate of the freshwater increase. Furthermore, the increment of the direct normal irradiation leads to the energy and exergy efficiencies enhancement. Besides, raising compressor pressure ratio, the net output power, energy, and exergy efficiencies first increase intensively then decrease gradually. The analysis of the new proposed system can be helpful to the system designers to create new system arrangements with higher performance.
UT WOS:000688396300006
ER

PT J
AU Gonzalez, JM
   Tomlinson, JE
   Harou, JJ
   Ceseña, EAM
   Panteli, M
   Bottacin-Busolin, A
   Hurford, A
   Olivares, MA
   Siddiqui, A
   Erfani, T
   Strzepek, KM
   Mancarella, P
   Mutale, J
   Obuobie, E
   Seid, AH
   Ya, AZ
AF Gonzalez, Jose M.
   Tomlinson, James E.
   Harou, Julien J.
   Cesena, Eduardo A. Martinez
   Panteli, Mathaios
   Bottacin-Busolin, Andrea
   Hurford, Anthony
   Olivares, Marcelo A.
   Siddiqui, Afzal
   Erfani, Tohid
   Strzepek, Kenneth M.
   Mancarella, Pierluigi
   Mutale, Joseph
   Obuobie, Emmanuel
   Seid, Abdulkarim H.
   Ya, Aung Ze
TI Spatial and sectoral benefit distribution in water-energy system design
DE Water-energy system design; Multi-sector benefit distribution;
   Multi-objective robust optimisation under uncertainty; Multi-objective
   evolutionary algorithms
ID NSGA-II ALGORITHM; RESOURCE SYSTEMS; OPTIMIZATION MODEL; ROBUSTNESS
   METRICS; GENERATION; NEXUS; FRAMEWORK
AB The design of water and energy systems has traditionally been done independently or considering simplified interdependencies between the two systems. This potentially misses valuable synergies between them and does not consider in detail the distribution of benefits between different sectors or regions. This paper presents a framework to couple integrated water-power network simulators with multi-objective optimisation under uncertainty to explore the implications of explicitly including spatial topology and interdependencies in the design of multi-sector integrated systems. A synthetic case study that incorporates sectoral dependencies in resource allocation, operation of multi-purpose reservoirs and spatially distributed infrastructure selection in both systems is used. The importance of explicitly modelling the distribution of benefits across different sectors and regions is explored by comparing different spatially aggregated and disaggregated multi-objective optimisation formulations. The results show the disaggregated formulation identifies a diverse set of non-dominated portfolios that enables addressing the spatial and sectoral distribution of benefits, whilst the aggregated formulations arbitrarily induce unintended biases. The proposed disaggregated approach allows for detailed spatial design of interlinked water and energy systems considering their complex regional and sectoral trade-offs. The framework is intended to assist planners in real resource systems where diverse stakeholder groups are mindful of receiving their fair share of development benefits.
UT WOS:000537619800001
ER

PT J
AU Nichols, MH
   Shaw, JR
   Brandau, WK
AF Nichols, Mary H.
   Shaw, Jeremy R.
   Brandau, William K.
TI Unintended consequences of rangeland conservation structures
DE Contour berm; Erosion; Human altered landscape; Restoration; Semiarid;
   Water spreader
ID LEGACY; WATER
AB By the 1930's vast areas of the western US were severely degraded by overgrazing and erosion. In response, Congress authorized conservation work including the construction of erosion control and water storage, distribution, and conveyance structures. Thousands of structures such as check dams, water spreaders, and contour berms were built during the 1930s and 40s to control water and sediment in an attempt to restore degraded rangelands. However, across most of the western US, these soil and water conservation measures were implemented without the benefit of local hydrologic data or technical design guidance. Many of the established conservation practices had been developed for humid regions and were untested for use in semiarid areas that are characterized by highly variable rainfall and flash floods. As a result, many structures proved ineffective and were subsequently abandoned. Even in cases where structures were effective, many never received maintenance after their initial construction. Although structurally compromised, abandoned and unmaintained structures continue to alter surface runoff patterns and can greatly exacerbate erosion. Four sites in Arizona, USA were selected to characterize the multi-decadal impacts of conservation structures. Breaches have formed in 100% of contour berms (n = 67) while 96% of water spreader berms (n = 26) were compromised. Localized failures in these structures has created concentrated flow paths that reorganized routing of runoff and sediment thus transforming sheetflow regimes to concentrated flow regimes. This study emphasizes the unintended legacy impacts of soil and water conservation structures and highlights their role as a potential constraint on contemporary resource management. (C) 2020 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation and China Water and Power Press. Production and Hosting by Elsevier B.V.
UT WOS:000614576700014
ER

PT J
AU Shen, SY
   Chen, JS
   Cheng, DB
   Liu, HH
   Zhang, T
AF Shen, Shengyu
   Chen, Jiasheng
   Cheng, Dongbing
   Liu, Honghu
   Zhang, Tong
TI Benggang segmentation via deep exchanging of digital orthophoto map and
   digital surface model features
DE Benggang segmentation; Deep fusion; Channel exchanging; DOM; DSM
ID COLLAPSING GULLIES
AB Benggang is a typical fragmented erosional landscape in southern and southeastern China, posing significant risk to the local residents and economic development. Therefore, an efficient and accurate finegrained segmentation method is crucial for monitoring the Benggang areas. In this paper, we propose a deep learning-based automatic segmentation method for Benggang by integrating high-resolution Digital Orthophoto Map (DOM) and Digital Surface Model (DSM) data. The DSM data is used to extract slope maps, aiming to capture primary morphological features. The proposed method consists of a dualstream convolutional encoder-decoder network in which multiple cascaded convolutional layers and a skip connection scheme are used to extract morphological and visual features of the Benggang areas. The rich discriminative information in the DOM and slope data is fused by a channel exchanging mechanism that dynamically exchanges the most discriminative features from either the DOM or DSM stream according to their importance at the channel level. Evaluation experiments were conducted on a challenging dataset collected from Guangdong Province, China, and the results show that the proposed channel exchanging network based deep fusion method achieves 84.62% IoU in Benggang segmentation, outperforming several existing unimodal or multimodal baselines. The proposed multimodal segmentation method greatly improves the efficiency of large-scale discovery of Benggang, and thus is important for the management and restoration of Benggang in southern and southeastern China, as well as the monitoring of other similar erosional landscapes. (c) 2023 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY
UT WOS:001273416000001
ER

PT J
AU Hishe, S
   Lyimo, J
   Bewket, W
AF Hishe, Solomon
   Lyimo, James
   Bewket, Woldeamlak
TI Soil and water conservation effects on soil properties in the Middle
   Silluh Valley, northern Ethiopia
DE Land degradation; Soil and water conservation; Soil properties; Middle
   Silluh Valley; Ethiopia
ID BLUE NILE BASIN; ORGANIC-CARBON; STONE BUNDS; HIGHLANDS; CROPLAND;
   EROSION; TIGRAY
AB Community-based Soil and Water Conservation (SWC) practices have been adopted in the Tigray region since 1991 for restoration of the degraded landscape. The effects of those conservation measures on physico-chemical properties of soil were limitedly studied. Thus, this study evaluated the effects of SWC on selected soil properties in the Middle Silluh Valley, Tigray region, Northern Ethiopia. The study considered conserved landscapes (terraced hillside, terraced farmland and exclosure area) and non conserved landscapes (non-terraced hillside, non-terraced farmland and open grazing land) for comparison using a one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA). A total of 24 samples were collected from each landscape at a depth of 10-30 cm. The results indicated that mean bulk density (BD) was low on terraced hillside, non-terraced hillside and exclosure area. Sand and clay content were significantly different at P < 0.05 for the six landscape categories. Higher mean organic matter was observed in the conserved landscape, as compared with the corresponding non-conserved landscape. Pearson's correlation between Soil Organic Matter (SOM) and clay content, SOM and Total Nitrogen (TN) showed strong positive relationships. Overall, the results show that SWC had significantly positive effects on soil's physical and chemical properties in the study area. (C) 2017 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation and China Water and Power Press. Production and Hosting by Elsevier B.V. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC ND license.
UT WOS:000413332200008
ER

PT J
AU Gebregziabher, M
   Amdeselassie, F
   Esayas, R
   Abebe, Z
   Silvia, H
   Teklehaimanot, AA
   Korte, JE
   Pearce, JL
   Cochran, JJ
AF Gebregziabher, Mulugeta
   Amdeselassie, Fasika
   Esayas, Reiye
   Abebe, Zerihun
   Silvia, Hannah
   Teklehaimanot, Abeba A.
   Korte, Jeffrey E.
   Pearce, John L.
   Cochran, James J.
TI Geographical distribution of the health crisis of war in the Tigray
   region of Ethiopia
DE Armed conflict; health crisis; Ethiopia; healthcare; social determinants
   of health; Tigray; war
AB War destroys health facilities and displaces health workers. It has a devastating impact on population health, especially in vulnerable populations. We assess the geographical distribution of the impact of war on healthcare delivery by comparing the pre-November 2020 and the November to June 2021 status of health facilities in the Tigray region of Ethiopia. Data were collected from February 2021 to June 2021, during an active civil war and an imposed communication blackout in Tigray. Primary data were collected and verified by multiple sources. Data include information on health facility type, geocoding and health facility status (fully functional (FF), partially functional (PF), not functional, no communication). Only 3.6% of all health facilities (n=1007), 13.5% of all hospitals and health centres (n=266), and none of the health posts (n=741), are functional. Destruction varies by geographic location; only 3.3% in Western, 3.3% in South Eastern, 6.5% in North Western, 8% in Central, 14.6% in Southern, 16% in Eastern and 78.6% in Mekelle are FF. Only 9.7% of health centres, 43.8% of general hospitals and 21.7% of primary hospitals are FF. None of the health facilities are operating at prewar level even when classified as FF or PF due to lack of power and water or essential devices looted or destroyed, while they still continue operating. The war in Tigray has clearly had a direct and devastating impact on healthcare delivery. Restoration of the destroyed health facilities needs to be a priority agenda of the international community.
UT WOS:000789917500002
ER

PT C
AU Wang, Z
   Sang, D
   Shi, DJ
   Cheng, C
AF Wang Zheng
   Sang Da
   Shi Dajun
   Cheng Cheng
GP Assoc Computing Machinery
TI Intelligent Algorithms and Big Data Technology in Power Transmission
   Systems: Efficient, Reliable, and Sustainable Energy Transmission
DE BD Analysis; Power Delivery; Long Short Term Memory; Renewable Energy
AB "West to East Power Transmission" refers to the conversion of energy from water power resources and coal resources abundant western area and regions into electricity resources, and transmission to the eastern coastal areas where electricity is scarce. How to ensure security and stability supply of electricity demand within and outside the province while improving the overall cleanliness of electricity is the biggest problem faced by central and western provinces in the medium to long-term power development planning. This article analyzes historical and real-time power transmission data using big data (BD) technology, selects a model based on long short term memory (LSTM) algorithm for medium to long term prediction of power demand, and predicts future load demand in advance. It adjusts the operation plan of the generator set according to demand to achieve efficient energy transmission. This article compares and analyzes several flexible renewable new energy sources. The optimal renewable energy generation planning and coordination can be determined to ensure the full utilization and maximum efficiency of renewable energy. The experimental results show that the model can achieve an accuracy of 96% in predicting the total electricity demand and 95% in predicting the proportion of energy consumption. The algorithm model has strong robustness. This article proposes a predictive model for electricity compliance, selects the optimal renewable resources combined with coal power resources for clean transformation of electricity, and achieves efficient, reliable, and sustainable green energy development.
UT WOS:001304322500069
ER

PT J
AU Hu, XQ
   Li, ZW
   Chen, J
   Nie, XD
   Liu, JY
   Wang, LX
   Ning, K
AF Hu, Xiaoqian
   Li, Zhongwu
   Chen, Jia
   Nie, Xiaodong
   Liu, Junyu
   Wang, Lingxia
   Ning, Ke
TI Carbon sequestration benefits of the grain for Green Program in the
   hilly red soil region of southern China
DE Carbon sequestration; InVEST model; GFGP area; Climate change; Unused
   land afforestation
ID LAND-COVER CHANGE; ECOSYSTEM SERVICES; LOESS PLATEAU; EMISSIONS;
   EROSION; DRIVEN
AB Soil erosion disturbs not only the global carbon cycle, but it is a complex environmental problem. Revegetation could reduce carbon emission by controlling soil erosion and increase carbon sequestration and accumulation by fixing carbon in vegetation and soil. The Grain for Green Program (GFGP) of China is the largest ecological restoration program in the world closely related to land-use/land-cover change (LUCC). Systematically assessing the carbon sequestration benefit of GFGP is crucial for a better understanding of the effects of implementing GFGP and providing reasonable vegetation management. Therefore, we selected the hilly red soil region (HRSR) of southern China as a study area, which is one of the main ecologically vulnerable areas in China. We assessed the carbon sequestration in the GFGP area of the HRSR using the InVEST (Integrated Valuation of Environmental Services and Tradeoffs) model based on land-use/land-cover datasets during 2000-2015. Our results show that implementing GFGP is conducive to the enhancement of carbon sequestration services. Total carbon sequestration showed an increasing trend at a rate of 15.43% from 2000 to 2015. The most significant change mainly happened in Hunan Province with the shortest implementation time. The carbon sequestration of each carbon pool (namely aboveground biomass, belowground biomass, soil, and dead organic matter) also increased slightly. Additionally, for carbon sequestration, unused land converted to forest land is the most effective LUCC. This study can provide scientific support for the management and implementation of GFGP in the HRSR of China. (c) 2020 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation and China Water and Power Press. Production and Hosting by Elsevier B.V.
UT WOS:000638255100010
ER

PT J
AU Liang, ZS
   Wu, ZR
   Yao, WY
   Noori, M
   Yang, CQ
   Xiao, PQ
   Leng, YB
   Deng, L
AF Liang, Zhishui
   Wu, Zhiren
   Yao, Wenyi
   Noori, Mohammad
   Yang, Caiqian
   Xiao, Peiqing
   Leng, Yuanbao
   Deng, Lin
TI Pisha sandstone: Causes, processes and erosion options for its control
   and prospects
DE Water loss and soil erosion; Land degradation; Ecological restoration;
   Seabuckthorn; Comprehensive measure
ID LOESS PLATEAU; CHECK-DAM; SIMULATION; REGION; CHINA; LAND; SOIL
AB Pisha sandstone is a special kind of soft rock in the semiarid region along the up and middle reaches of Yellow River and Loess Plateau and is severely eroded by wind, rainfall and gravity force. Pisha sandstone region is called "the most severe water loss and soil erosion in the world" and referred to as the "Earth Cancer" by local residents and experts both at home and abroad. The plan for the control of Pisha sandstone started in the 1950s. Since then a series of projects have been implemented, both engineering and vegetation measures have been developed and widely used to protect Pisha sandstone from erosion. Since seabuckthorn was introduced as a viable approach for soil erosion protection and its implementation resulted in a breakthrough to control Loess Plateau, it was considered as an important and efficient measure. Then the seabuckthorn flexible dam was proposed for coarse sediment retention and fine sediment deposition. And then a new comprehensive control model using consolidation materials combined with vegetation was proposed and promising results were achieved both in laboratory and field demonstrations. In the future, the complex erosion mechanism and ecological carrying capacity should be studied further and more efficient and practical comprehensive measures shall be developed. Moreover, monitoring systems shall be used to predict and detect the changes in the Pisha sandstone slope and structure. (C) 2019 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation and China Water and Power Press. Production and Hosting by Elsevier B.V.
UT WOS:000461196000001
ER

PT J
AU Omotayo, OP
   Babalola, OO
AF Omotayo, Oluwadara Pelumi
   Babalola, Olubukola Oluranti
TI Resident rhizosphere microbiome's ecological dynamics and conservation:
   Towards achieving the envisioned Sustainable Development Goals, a review
DE Food security; Land use activity; Soil microbial community; Soil
   degradation; Sustainable agriculture
ID BACTERIAL DIVERSITY; CROP PRODUCTION; SEWAGE-SLUDGE; PLANT-GROWTH; SOIL
   HEALTH; DISEASE; ALLELOCHEMICALS; FERTILIZATION; PESTICIDES; MICROBES
AB The role of the rhizosphere microbiome remain crucial to human existence and can therefore not be over-looked, particularly with respect to plant growth, development and yield. The rhizosphere is the 'home' for several genes, some of which are responsible for the various trait and features exhibited by plants. Numerous microbes have been identified to inhabit the rhizosphere, some of which are the proteobacteria, nitrogen fixing bacteria, plant growth promoting rhizobacteria, mycorrhizal and mycoparasitic fungi. Likewise, chemical compounds such as amino acids (crystathionine and homoserine), which inhibits nematodes, carbohydrates (fructose), which enhance the growth of microorganisms, and sterols (sitosterol), which regulate plant growth, reside in the plant rhizosphere. Several factors contributes to the existence and survival of these microbes, one being good agricultural practices, as some farming techniques negatively affects the soil microbial content. This study therefore focused on the agricultural and health importance of the soil organisms, as well as the various techniques that can be employed to maintain the rhizosphere microbiome, despite the rise and intensification of various harmful land use activities. This will enable a better understanding of the soil rhizosphere conservation, restoration and sustainable use, specifically of degraded land. This will avoid depleting or alternating the soil microbial content while aiming to ensure a healthy ecosystem, biodiversity, maximal crop productivity, food security and all round sustainability, as targeted by the United Nation's Sustainable Developments Goals. (C) 2020 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation and China Water and Power Press. Production and Hosting by Elsevier B.V.
UT WOS:000614576700012
ER

PT J
AU Bai, Y
   Ma, XY
   Zhang, J
   Zhang, L
   Bai, J
AF Bai, Yan
   Ma, Xingyi
   Zhang, Jing
   Zhang, Lei
   Bai, Jing
TI Energy Efficiency Assessment and Prediction Based on Indicator System,
   PSO plus AHP - FCE Model and Regression Algorithm
DE enterprise energy efficiency; assessment index system; hierarchical
   analysis method AHP; particle swarm optimization PSO; fuzzy
   comprehensive evaluation method FCE; multiple linear regression
AB Energy-intensive enterprises lack a scientific and effective energy efficiency assessment framework and methodology. This lack leads to an inaccurate understanding of energy usage and its benefits. As a result, there is energy wastage and loss. This wastage and loss negatively affect product costs. They also present a challenge to effective energy management. To address these issues, this paper introduces a novel, comprehensive energy efficiency evaluation system. This system integrates both qualitative and quantitative measures. It proposes an evaluation model based on the Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) combined with the Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP) and Fuzzy Comprehensive Evaluation (FCE), wherein PSO is employed to optimize the weights determined by AHP, ensuring that the significance attributed to various indicators is scientific, objective, and rational. The FCE method is utilized to convert diverse factors affecting corporate energy efficiency, across different types and scales, into standardized 0-1 values, enabling a comparative analysis of the impact of each process and indicator on energy efficiency. Furthermore, the paper introduces an energy efficiency prediction model employing a multivariate linear regression algorithm, which demonstrates a good fit, facilitating the transition from retrospective energy efficiency evaluation to proactive improvements. Utilizing data on actual consumption of water, electricity, and steam from an enterprise, along with expert assessments on the implementation levels of new processes, technologies, equipment, personnel scheduling proficiency, steam recovery rates, and adherence to policies and assessments, a simulation experiment of the proposed model was conducted using Python. The evaluation yielded an energy efficiency score of 0.68; this is consistent with the real-world scenario of the studied enterprise. The predicted mean square error of 9.035416039503998 x 10-9 indicates a high model accuracy, validating the practical applicability and effectiveness of the proposed approach.
UT WOS:001210279800001
ER

PT J
AU Khadimallah, MA
   Alanazi, A
   Alanazi, M
   Ali, E
AF Khadimallah, Mohamed Amine
   Alanazi, Abdulaziz
   Alanazi, Mohana
   Ali, Elimam
TI Simultaneous power, fresh water and fuel generation using a novel hybrid
   system based on biomass and solar thermal energy
DE Tri-generation; Power plant; Renewable energy; Steam gasification; MED
   desalination; Solar PTC
ID EXERGY ANALYSIS; PERFORMANCE; PLANT; OPTIMIZATION; DESALINATION;
   EFFICIENCY; HYBRIDIZATION; CONSUMPTION; SIMULATION; CARBON
AB Hybrid renewable energy systems using solar energy and biomass will become more crucial in the near future. In this study a new design for continuous production process of power, biogas and fresh water is proposed. The challenge of the present research is to use different sources for energy production from renewable resources simultaneously including solar and biomass to produce power, fuel and fresh water, using 4-stage Multi Effect Distillation (MED) for desalination of seawater. To cope with constant and stable energy production required for renewable solar power plants at night, due to lack of sunlight, co-consumption of hybrid solar and biomass feedstocks is considered in this system. The associated challenge is discussed by the assessments of Solar Heat transfer fluid (SHTF), Sewage sludge flowrates, biogas production, output waste stream of gasification reactor, power and fresh water production using ASPEN Plus software. The sensitivity analysis was performed to demonstrate the viability of the designed process and the resulting products. The findings of this research show that gasification process produced 76.858 ton/h syngas (CO and H 2 ). Besides, 34.547 MW of power with about 783 m 3 /h of fresh water are produced with the overall exergy efficiency of 35.51%, 52.260 MW exergy destruction and desalination efficiency of 52%. Only 25 MW of solar power is necessary due to proper energy recovery throughout the entire process. The productivity of freshwater production is 50%. 38908 m 2 of Parabolic trough collector (PTC) is needed to supply required solar energy during day light hours. It is revealed that the hybridization of solar & biomass energy resources for producing power, fresh water, and biogas could be a sustainable approach to cope with the increasing demand for fresh water, electricity, and fuel.
UT WOS:001243473900001
ER

PT J
AU Rahil, A
   Gammon, R
   Brown, N
AF Rahil, Abdulla
   Gammon, Rupert
   Brown, Neil
TI Techno-economic assessment of dispatchable hydrogen production by
   multiple electrolysers in Libya
DE Electricity pricing mechanism; Demand management; Forecourt
   electrolysis; Hydrogen refuelling station
ID ALKALINE ELECTROLYSIS; ECONOMIC-ANALYSIS; ENERGY-STORAGE; FUEL-CELL;
   ELECTRICITY; SYSTEM; OPTIMIZATION; DESIGN; FUTURE; COST
AB With the worldwide growth of renewable energy generation, the value of hydrogen production by electrolysis as a demand management tool for electricity networks is likely to increase. Electrolytic hydrogen can be sold as a fuel, chemical feedstock or injected into pipelines to lower the carbon content of natural gas. The main obstacle to hydrogen's use as a fuel or energy storage method is the price. The highest costs are in the capital expenditure and the consumption of feedstock (electricity and water). In this paper, three major techno-economic aspects of the system are investigated, including technical analyses of both the energy absorbed by the process in the provision of electricity demand management services and in its meeting of fuel demand, plus an economic assessment of the hydrogen price at the at the point of sale. Thus, the study investigates how only off-peak electricity is used to produce hydrogen via onsite electrolysis at a number of garage forecourts. In a simulated case study, six garage forecourts are assumed to be sited in Darnah, a small city on the east coast of Libya. An electricity pricing mechanism is devised to allow the energy producer (utility company) and energy consumer (garage forecourt operator) to make a profit. Short term (2015) and long term (2030) cost scenarios are applied. Matlab software was used to simulate this process. Without any government support or changes in regulation and policy, hydrogen prices were 10.00 pound/kg, 9.80 pound/kg, 9.60 pound/kg, 10.00 pound/kg, 9.40 pound/kg and 10.30 pound/kg for forecourts 1-6 respectively under the 2015 cost scenario. The electricity price represents around 17% of the total hydrogen cost, whereas, due to the investment cost reduction in 2030, the average prices of hydrogen dropped to 6.50 pound/kg, 6.60 pound/kg, 6.30 pound/kg, 6.40 pound/kg, 6.20 pound/kg and 6.50 pound/kg for stations 1-6 respectively. The feedstock cost share became 44% in the 2030 cost scenario. Nearly 53.91% and 53.77% of available energy is absorbed in short and long term scenarios respectively. Under the long term cost scenario, 65% of hydrogen demand can be met, whereas less than 60% of hydrogen demand is met under the short term scenario. The system reliability (i.e. the meeting of hydrogen fuel demand) is quite low due to the operational mode of the system. Increasing the system size (mainly electrolyser production capacity) can clearly improve the system reliability. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000428092700005
ER

PT J
AU Woldearegay, K
   Grum, B
   Hessel, R
   van Steenbergen, F
   Fleskens, L
   Yazew, E
   Tamene, L
   Mekonnen, K
   Reda, T
   Haftu, M
AF Woldearegay, Kifl
   Grum, Berhane
   Hessel, Rudi
   van Steenbergen, Frank
   Fleskens, Luuk
   Yazew, Eyasu
   Tamene, Lulseged
   Mekonnen, Kindu
   Reda, Teklay
   Haftu, Mulu
TI Watershed management, groundwater recharge and drought resilience: An
   integrated approach to adapt to rainfall variability in northern
   Ethiopia
DE Climate change; Green and blue water; Landscape restoration; Water
   harvesting
ID SOIL-EROSION; TIGRAY HIGHLANDS; SEDIMENT YIELD; LAND-USE; CONSERVATION
   MEASURES; HARVESTING TECHNIQUES; STONE BUNDS; CATCHMENT; DEGRADATION;
   KNOWLEDGE
AB Rainfall variability coupled with poor land and water management is contributing to food insecurity in many sub-Saharan African countries such as Ethiopia. To address such challenges, various efforts have been implemented in Ethiopia. The objective of this study was to evaluate the long-term impacts of different soil and water conservation and water harvesting interventions on groundwater and drought resilience of the Gule watershed, northern Ethiopia. The study involved: (i) documentation of the approaches followed and the technologies implemented in Gule since the 1990s, (ii) monitoring the hydrological effects of the interventions for ten years, and (iii) evaluation of the effects of the interventions on groundwater (level and quality), spring discharge and suspended sediment concentration (SSC) in runoff. Results showed that interventions were implemented at different stages and scales. As a result of the interventions, the watershed was transformed into a landscape resilient to rainfall variability: (a) dry shallow groundwater wells have become productive and the level of water in wells has raised, (b) the groundwater quality has improved, (c) SSC in high floods has reduced by up to 65%, (d) discharge of existing springs has increased by up to 73% and new springs have started to emerge. Due to improved water availability, irrigated land has increased from less than 3.5 ha before 2002 to 166 ha in 2019. Communities have remained water-secure during an extreme drought in 2015/2016. Implementation of watershed management practices has transformed the landscape to be resilient to rainfall variability in a semi-arid environment: a lesson for adaptation to climate variability and change in similar environments. (c) 2023 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY
UT WOS:001273160000001
ER

PT J
AU Ismail, ZZ
   Ibrahim, MA
AF Ismail, Zainab Z.
   Ibrahim, Mohammed A.
TI Desalination of oilfield produced water associated with treatment of
   domestic wastewater and bioelectricity generation in microbial osmotic
   fuel cell
DE Produced water; Wastewater; Desalination; Power generation; Forward
   osmosis
ID MEDIATOR-LESS; OSMOSIS; MEMBRANE; FLUX; RECOVERY; EFFLUENT
AB In the present study, a novel application of microbial osmotic fuel cell (MOFC) for simultaneous treatment of real wastewater, bioenergy generation and desalination of real oilfield produced water is investigated. A three-chambered MOFC provided with forward osmosis (FO) membrane and cation exchange membrane (CEM) was inoculated with activated sludge and fueled with actual domestic wastewater. Real oil produced water having initial total dissolved solids (TDS) concentration of 49,200 mg/L was used as a draw solution for the desalination mid chamber. Results revealed that maximum removal efficiency of COD from real wastewater, TDS removal efficiency from actual produced water, power density, current density, and power yield were 92%, 80%, 48.52 mW/m(2), 136.30 mA/m(2), and 7.46 W/kg CODR, respectively. A mathematical model was developed to predict the performance of MOFC. it was found that the predicted results were in a good agreement with experimental results with a correlation coefficient up to 0.989, indicating the validity of the suggested model for this bioelectrochemical-osmotic system within the selected range of operating conditions. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000355742800027
ER

PT J
AU Mao, ZY
   Yao, Y
   He, YH
   Yu, Z
   Han, YC
   Shen, JD
   Tang, XX
   Lyu, F
   Miao, ML
   Xu, YX
   Song, Z
   Duan, XG
   Su, YH
   Yang, HX
   Wang, QL
   Lu, J
AF Mao, Zhengyi
   Yao, Yao
   He, Yunhu
   Yu, Zhen
   Han, Yicheng
   Shen, Junda
   Tang, Xinxue
   Lyu, Fucong
   Miao, Mulin
   Xu, Yaxin
   Song, Zhe
   Duan, Xiaoguang
   Su, Yuehong
   Yang, Hongxing
   Wang, Qiliang
   Lu, Jian
TI Passively Ultra Cooling Patch Enabling High-Efficiency Power-Water
   Cogeneration
DE evaporation cooling; heat and mass transfer; patch; photovoltaics;
   water-energy nexus
ID TEMPERATURE
AB Photovoltaic (PV) systems, which accounted for 75% of global renewable energy capacity in 2023, are limited by the substantial waste heat generated through the photothermal effect, reducing both electricity generation efficiency and panel longevity. In this work, a passive cooling strategy using an ultra-cooling patch (UCP) that effectively cools down the PV panel is presented, thus achieving an exceptionally high cooling power of nearly 700 W m(-2) and facilitating the recovery of over 70% of waste heat for freshwater production. The flexibility and adhesive properties of UCP allow for easy integration with various PV configurations, including flexible panels. In addition, the UCP can be easily reconfigured into a fined structure, enabling modifications to the heat transfer pathway. This passively intensifies the heat dissipation of the PV panel, further enhancing the cooling performance. As a result, a remarkable temperature reduction of 29 degrees C for the PV panel is achieved, which in turn results in an impressive increase in maximum power density of over 28%. Moreover, outdoor experiments on a approximate to 1 m(2) PV panel validated the cooling performance and practical applicability. This study offers a solution with commercial potential to relieve the energy-water crisis, owing to its high efficiency, scalability, and cost-effectiveness.
UT WOS:001552287300001
ER

PT J
AU Zhu, PP
   Xu, H
   Zhou, LG
   Yu, PX
   Zhang, LQ
   Liu, SH
AF Zhu, Panpan
   Xu, Hao
   Zhou, Ligang
   Yu, Peixin
   Zhang, Liqiang
   Liu, Suhong
TI Automatic mapping of gully from satellite images using asymmetric
   non-local LinkNet: A case study in Northeast China
DE Gully erosion mapping; High-resolution satellite images; Deep learning;
   Black soil
ID BLACK SOIL REGION; EROSION; ACCURACY; PROVINCE
AB Gully erosion can lead to the destruction of farmland and the reduction in crop yield. Gully mapping from remote sensing images is critical for quickly obtaining the distribution of gullies at regional scales and arranging corresponding prevention and control measures. The narrow and irregular shapes and similar colors to the surrounding farmland make mapping erosion gullies in sloping farmland from remote sensing images challenging. To implement gully erosion mapping, we developed a small training samples-oriented lightweight deep leaning model, called asymmetric non-local LinkNet (ASNL-LinkNet). The ASNL-LinkNet integrates global context information through an asymmetric non-local operation and conducts multilayer feature fusion to improve the robustness of the extracted features. Experiment results show that the proposed ASNL-LinkNet achieves the best performance when compared with other deep learning methods. The quantitative evaluation results in the three test areas show that the F1-score of erosion gully recognition varies from 0.62 to 0.72. This study provides theoretical reference and practical guidance for monitoring erosion gullies on slope farmland in the black soil region of Northeast China. (c) 2023 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BYNC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
UT WOS:001223584600001
ER

PT J
AU Oonk, D
   Kaul, M
   Maurer, B
   Karwat, DMA
AF Oonk, David
   Kaul, Mokshda
   Maurer, Ben
   Karwat, Darshan M. A.
TI Public value mapping to assess and guide governmental investments in
   energy and environmental justice: Studying the United States Department
   of Energy
DE Energy justice; Environmental justice; Energy technology; Marine energy;
   Hydropower; Just technology; Energy policy
ID LIFE-CYCLE; VULNERABILITY; SCIENCE; DESIGN; POWER
AB If the U.S. federal government is going to successfully advance the causes of energy and environmental justice (EEJ) as recent policy has pushed for, how might federal programs and investments be assessed through the lens of these values beyond standard econometric ones? Federal agencies like the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) play a significant role in setting long-term strategies and investments for energy technologies, but they generally use technocentric approaches and metrics, such as reductions in levelized cost of energy, to evaluate success. Understanding strategies and investments across a portfolio through the lens of EEJ requires novel approaches. We deploy a first-of-its-kind public value mapping focused how past programs in the DOE Water Power Technologies Office (WPTO) align with EEJ. By analyzing several thousand pages of congressional statutes, documented administration policies and executive orders, agency and office reports and publications, and semistructured interviews of DOE staff and project collaborators, we focus on evaluating research, development, deployment, and commercialization activities promoting legacy (hydropower) and emerging (marine hydrokinetic) renewable energy technologies through the lens of EEJ. Our results provide a baseline according to which future programmatic efforts promoting EEJ in WPTO, DOE as a whole, and beyond can be compared. Our work provides a foundation for tools and processes that can be embedded into day-to-day staff actions that can guide federal investments related to EEJ and push for a more just and sustainable future.
UT WOS:001097204000001
ER

PT J
AU Zadeh, KR
   Mirjalily, SAA
   Oloomi, SAA
   Salehi, G
   Manesh, MHK
AF Zadeh, Khodadoost Rostami
   Mirjalily, Seyed Ali Agha
   Oloomi, Seyed Amir Abbas
   Salehi, Gholamreza
   Manesh, Mohammad Hasan Khoshgoftar
TI Multi-objective optimal design of solar-gas turbine driven
   polygeneration system based on 4E analysis
DE polygeneration; exergetic; exergoeconomic; exergoenvironmental; water
   cycle algorithm
ID LIFE-CYCLE ASSESSMENT; CCHP SYSTEM; THERMOECONOMIC ASSESSMENT;
   TRIGENERATION SYSTEM; EXERGY ANALYSES; POWER CCHP; ENERGY; OPTIMIZATION;
   BIOMASS; PERFORMANCE
AB In this paper, a novel polygeneration system for an office building based on an integrated flat plate solar collector and gas turbine to produce simultaneous power, freshwater, cooling and heating has been introduced. The proposed system includes a heat recovery steam generator, a multi-effect desalination (MED), reverse osmosis (RO), a steam turbine, a solar plate collector and an absorption chiller. The transient simulation and analysis for the solar system have been done in TRNSYS software. Also, a computer code was built to compute energy, exergy, exergoeconomic and exergoenvironmental (4E) analysis dynamically. Furthermore, multi-objective optimisation process using genetic algorithm (MOGA) and water cycle approach (MOWCA) to maximise the exergy efficiency, minimise the total cost of exergy and minimise the total environmental impacts of exergy has been conducted simultaneously. Genetic programming has been employed to generate correlations for objective function estimation with high accuracy for reducing computation time. Results show the overall exergetic efficiency, which is improved by 12.65% and 12.67% using MOGA and MOWCA. Also, the overall exergoeconomic cost of power and water is reduced by 27.66%, 32.97%, 27.83% and 32.96% using MOGA and MOWCA, respectively.
UT WOS:000756842600001
ER

PT J
AU Wen, JL
   Feng, JY
   Yao, JF
   Xiao, JK
   Nangia, V
   Li, J
   Liu, Y
AF Wen, Jialu
   Feng, Jingyi
   Yao, Jianfeng
   Xiao, Jianke
   Nangia, Vinay
   Li, Juan
   Liu, Yang
TI Moderate drought stress followed by re-watering enhances wheat starch
   biosynthesis, improving granule size distribution and physicochemical
   properties
DE Wheat; Starch; Drought followed by re-watering; Physicochemical
   properties
ID RHEOLOGICAL PROPERTIES; SWELLING POWER; RICE; GRAINS; FLOUR; ABA
AB Wheat growth is often restricted by drought, but crops have a water compensation effect. This study explored the effects of rewatering after different degrees of drought stress in the early stage of grain-filling (1-10 days post anthesis) on starch synthesis, yield, starch particle size distribution and physicochemical properties of two wheat varieties with different drought tolerance. Compared to the well-watered control (CK; soil relative moisture 70-75 %), mild drought followed by re-watering (MR; soil relative moisture 50-55 %) enhanced the activity and gene expression level of XN836 and XN979 starch synthases, increased the content of starch and sucrose, accelerated the conversion of sucrose to starch and thereby raised the wheat yield. Concurrently, MR increased starch granule size, swelling power, and water solubility, while decreasing relative crystallinity, short-range molecular degree of order, gelatinization temperature, and gelatinization enthalpy, ultimately improving starch quality. Dynamic rheology further revealed enhanced elastic behavior in starch under MR treatment. In contrast, severe drought followed by re-watering (SR; soil relative moisture 35-40 %) exhibited the opposite trends in both cultivars. Furthermore, XN836 demonstrated superior recovery capacity following drought and rewatering compared to XN979. These findings provide a theoretical basis for adaptive wheat management strategies under future climate change scenarios.
UT WOS:001627818400005
ER

PT J
AU Butt, NA
   Ali, TM
   Moin, A
   Hasnain, A
AF Butt, Natasha Abbas
   Ali, Tahira Mohsin
   Moin, Abeera
   Hasnain, Abid
TI Comparative study on morphological, rheological and functional
   characteristics of extruded rice starch citrates and lactates
DE Extrusion; Rheology; Starch citrate
ID EXTRUSION-COOKING; PAKISTANI BASMATI; WAXY MAIZE; GLUCOSE; ACID
AB Two levels of chemically modified starches (starch citrates and lactates) prepared at 20% and 40% w/v concentration was subjected to extrusion to produce pregelatinized starches (PG). Starch citrates and lactates modified at 20% and 40% level were referred as (SC20 and SC40) and (SL20 and SL40), respectively. These PG starches underwent significant structural changes during extrusion as depicted by scanning electron micrographs. Native starches showed lower swelling power and water binding capacity but formed harder gels compared to chemically modified pregels. The dynamic rheology of these polymers (extruded modified starches) suggested viscoelastic property i.e. (G ' > G '). Citrates demonstrated higher G ' than lactates in both frequency and temperature sweep tests. Stability of storage moduli over entire temperature range confirmed that addition of citrates and lactates led to strengthening of gel structure through cross linking and esterification. Non-newtonian behavior was shown by all samples as determined through steady shear flow test with flow behavior index <1. Starch citrate (SC20-PG) demonstrated higher shear stress values. While, SC40-PG depicted anti-thixotropic behavior as measured through in-shear structural recovery measurements. On the basis of results obtained, the dual modification (chemical followed by extrusion) may impart fruitful applications in various food products.
   (c) 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000649635400008
ER

PT C
AU Dong, XJ
   Shinozuka, M
AF Dong, XJ
   Shinozuka, M
BE Liu, SC
TI Performance analysis and visualization of electric power systems
DE earthquake; fragility; electric power; simulation
AB This paper describes a method of system performance evaluation for electric power network. The basic element that plays a crucial role here is the fragility information for transmission system equipment. The method utilizes the fragility information for evaluation of system performance degradation of LADWP's (Los Angeles Department of Water and Power's) power network damaged by a severe earthquake by comparing its performance before and after the earthquake event. One of the highlights of this paper is the use of computer code "PowerWorld" to visualize the state of power flow of the network, segment by segment. Similarly, the method can evaluate quantitatively the effect of various measures of rehabilitation or retrofit performed on equipment and/or facilities of the network. This is done by comparing the system performance with or without the rehabilitation. In this context, the results of experimental and analytical studies carried out by other researchers are used to determine the possible range of fragility enhancement associated with the rehabilitation of transformers in terms of base-isolation systems. In this analysis, 47 scenario earthquakes are used to develop the risk curves for the LADWP's power transmission system. The risk curve can then be correlated to economic impact of the reduction in power supply due to earthquake. Recovery aspects of the damaged power system will be studied from this point of view in future.
UT WOS:000185394400069
ER

PT J
AU Kajitani, Y
   Tatano, H
AF Kajitani, Yoshio
   Tatano, Hirokazu
TI Estimation of Lifeline Resilience Factors Based on Surveys of Japanese
   Industries
DE business continuity; electricity supply industry; estimation theory; gas
   industry; inventory management; manufacturing systems; production
   control; water supply
ID DISRUPTIONS; COMMUNITIES; IMPACTS
AB This paper discusses the resilience factors of industrial sectors under lifeline (electricity, water, and gas) system disruptions. The resilience factor is one of the quantitative measurements of lifeline impacts, which focuses on the production output of some industrial sectors during lifeline disruptions. Recent studies have provided the detailed structure of business resilience that includes multiple resilience options, such as production rescheduling, inventories, and back-up generators. However, the impacts of these options on resilience factor are not thoroughly investigated due to the lack of data. In addition, resilience factor in previous study is assumed to be applied only to the single-lifeline disruption case, which is a limited case in large-scale disasters. In this study, the resilience factors for 27 industrial sectors are estimated based on the empirical surveys conducted in the Aichi and Shizuoka Prefectures, Japan, focusing on more rigorous characteristics of resilience. One particular contribution of this paper is introducing the resilience factor that considers individual and compound effects of available resilience options along with multiple lifeline disruptions.
UT WOS:000271359600002
ER

PT J
AU Yáñez, A
   Kupka, N
   Tunç, B
   Suhonen, J
   Rinne, A
AF Yanez, Alejandro
   Kupka, Nathalie
   Tunc, Berivan
   Suhonen, Janne
   Rinne, Antti
TI Fine and ultrafine flotation with the Concorde CellTM - A journey
DE Fines flotation; Concorde Cell; Pneumatic; Industrial scale
ID PARTICLE-SIZE; FROTH STABILITY; RECOVERY; HYDRODYNAMICS; KINETICS; ORE
AB The Concorde Cell is a high-intensity pneumatic flotation cell dedicated to fines and ultrafines. Its development by Professor Graeme Jameson and later on by Metso was driven by two considerations: a reduction in bubble size and an increase in the shear rate and energy dissipation rate increases the particle-bubble collision and attachment efficiencies of fine particles. The Concorde Cell is a technology which produces fine air bubbles with high carrying capacity, thereby allowing increased capacity per unit; smaller footprint and a greater recovery of valuable fine particles which can be lost in other flotation cells. In addition, with a smaller number of flotation stages or less recycle required to achieve the desired recoveries, operational expenditures like power, water and reagents can be reduced.In this article, the potential of the Concorde Cell is explored through six cases, from base metals to metal-lurgical coal. Its main operating parameters, Air-to-Pulp Ratio, froth washing, froth depth and tailings recycle ratio, are investigated and show that the metallurgical performance of the Concorde Cell follows expectations based on the literature. Amongst others, higher APR leads to higher mass pulls and higher recoveries but lower grades, deeper froth depth increases selectivity... But the data also demonstrate the typical complexity of flotation, whereby the negative impact of increased APR can be compensated with froth washing to maintain high grades at high recoveries for example.About ten industrial scale flotation projects worldwide are deploying the Concorde CellTM. The examples of a metallurgical coal washing plant in Australia and of a copper plant in Zambia prove the capacity of the Concorde Cell to better recover the fines and ultrafines while providing high selectivity. In the two case studies, the Concorde Cell outperformed the previous technology specifically on the finest fractions of the processed streams.
UT WOS:001138442700001
ER

PT C
AU Wing, IS
   Wei, D
   Rose, AZ
   Wein, AM
AF Wing, Ian Sue
   Wei, Dan
   Rose, Adam Z.
   Wein, Anne M.
BE Davis, CA
   Yu, K
   Taciroglu, E
TI Economic Consequences of the HayWired Earthquake Scenario
AB This study evaluates the economic impacts of a Mw7.0 Hayward fault scenario earthquake on the greater San Francisco Bay Region's economy and the California economy as a whole using a detailed multiregional, static computable general equilibrium model. Economic impacts in terms of Gross Regional Product (GRP) losses caused by both capital stock (building and content) damages and water and electricity utilities, and telecommunications-service disruptions are estimated. The results indicate that the total losses are primarily caused by capital stock damages. In the 6 months following the earthquake, total GRP losses are estimated to be $44.2 billion (4.2 percent of California's projected baseline GRP over the period), but this result could be reduced by about 43 percent to $25.3 billion after factoring in microeconomic resilience tactics. The GRP losses associated with lifeline service disruptions are estimated to be $1.4 billion, which can be reduced by over 85 percent when resilience tactics are implemented. The most effective tactics are the ability to make up lost production by people working overtime or extra shifts (production recapture), making greater use of processes that do not need disrupted goods or services (production isolation), and substituting for disrupted supplies and services (input substitution), though their impact varies across the various causal factors influencing GRP losses.
UT WOS:000904487200046
ER

PT J
AU Li, YL
   Li, K
   Xiong, HH
   Deng, SY
   Hu, SM
   Sun, HR
   Tang, H
AF Li, Yilong
   Li, Kai
   Xiong, Huihui
   Deng, Senyu
   Hu, Shengming
   Sun, Haoran
   Tang, Hao
TI In-situ measurement technique of electrochemical impedance spectroscopy
   for high-power water electrolyzer
DE Proton exchange membrane water electrolyzer; Electrochemical impedance
   spectroscopy; In-situ measurement; High power application
ID FUEL-CELL; PERFORMANCE; ANODE; MASS
AB Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) is a crucial tool for investigating and characterizing multiple polarization processes within proton exchange membrane water electrolyzers (PEMWEs). While EIS has been effectively utilized in laboratory settings for small-area electrolyzers, there is currently a lack of measurement approaches suitable for high-power electrolyzers used in industrial applications. To fill this gap, this paper begins with the fundamental principles of impedance measurement and systematically compares various factors that influence the accuracy of impedance measurements, including the topology configuration of disturbance injection, locations for current measurement, techniques for current sensing, and delays in the voltage/current conditioning circuit. Based on these analyses, this paper proposes an in-situ EIS measurement scheme for high-power PEMWEs. The effectiveness of this proposed scheme is demonstrated through the study of current waveforms, EIS patterns, the validation of the Kramers-Kronig relations, and EIS analysis using equivalent circuit models combined with the distribution of relaxation times under various operating conditions, including current densities, temperatures, and deionized water flow rates. The proposed in-situ impedance measurement scheme offers a robust tool for internal state monitoring, fault diagnosis, and lifetime prediction of high-power electrolyzers. This advancement holds significant value for enhancing the reliability, durability, and costeffectiveness of PEMWE systems.
UT WOS:001638965500002
ER

PT J
AU Cross, WF
   Baxter, CV
   Donner, KC
   Rosi-Marshall, EJ
   Kennedy, TA
   Hall, RO 
   Kelly, HAW
   Rogers, RS
AF Cross, Wyatt F.
   Baxter, Colden V.
   Donner, Kevin C.
   Rosi-Marshall, Emma J.
   Kennedy, Theodore A.
   Hall, Robert O., Jr.
   Kelly, Holly A. Wellard
   Rogers, R. Scott
TI Ecosystem ecology meets adaptive management: food web response to a
   controlled flood on the Colorado River, Glen Canyon
DE dam; high-flow experiment; organic matter flows; regulated river;
   secondary production; species interactions; trophic basis of production
ID ZEALAND MUD SNAILS; GRAND-CANYON; RAINBOW-TROUT; TROPHIC INTERACTIONS;
   DAM; FLOWS; CONSEQUENCES; RESTORATION; DOWNSTREAM; ARIZONA
AB Large dams have been constructed on rivers to meet human demands for water, electricity, navigation, and recreation. As a consequence, flow and temperature regimes have been altered, strongly affecting river food webs and ecosystem processes. Experimental high-flow dam releases, i.e., controlled floods, have been implemented on the Colorado River, USA, in an effort to reestablish pulsed flood events, redistribute sediments, improve conditions for native fishes, and increase understanding of how dam operations affect physical and biological processes. We quantified secondary production and organic matter flows in the food web below Glen Canyon dam for two years prior and one year after an experimental controlled flood in March 2008. Invertebrate biomass and secondary production declined significantly following the flood (total biomass, 55% decline; total production, 56% decline), with most of the decline driven by reductions in two nonnative invertebrate taxa, Potamopyrgus antipodarum and Gammarus lacustris. Diatoms dominated the trophic basis of invertebrate production before and after the controlled flood, and the largest organic matter flows were from diatoms to the three most productive invertebrate taxa (P. antipodarum, G. lacustris, and Tubificida). In contrast to invertebrates, production of rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) increased substantially (194%) following the flood, despite the large decline in total secondary production of the invertebrate assemblage. This counterintuitive result is reconciled by a post-flood increase in production and drift concentrations of select invertebrate prey (i.e., Chironomidae and Simuliidae) that supported a large proportion of trout production but had relatively low secondary production. In addition, interaction strengths, measured as species impact values, were strongest between rainbow trout and these two taxa before and after the flood, demonstrating that the dominant consumer-resource interactions were not necessarily congruent with the dominant organic matter flows. Our study illustrates the value of detailed food web analysis for elucidating pathways by which dam management may alter production and strengths of species interactions in river food webs. We suggest that controlled floods may increase production of nonnative rainbow trout, and this information can be used to help guide future dam management decisions.
UT WOS:000294155900012
ER

PT C
AU Muljadi, E
   Gevorgian, V
   Wright, A
   Donegan, J
   Marnagh, C
   McEntee, J
AF Muljadi, E.
   Gevorgian, V.
   Wright, A.
   Donegan, J.
   Marnagh, C.
   McEntee, J.
BE Gao, DW
   Muljadi, E
   Zhang, J
   Khodaei, A
TI Electrical Power Conversion of River and Tidal Power Generator
DE ocean power; marine; hydrokinetic; tidal; river; renewable; water power;
   variable generation; distributed generation
AB As renewable generation has become less expensive during recent decades, and it becomes more accepted by the global population, the focus on renewable generation has expanded to include new types with promising future applications, such as river and tidal generation.
   Although the utilization of power electronics and electric machines in industry is phenomenal, the emphasis on system design is different for various sectors of industry. In precision control, robotics, and weaponry, the design emphasis is on accuracy and reliability with less concern for the cost of the final product. In energy generation, the cost of energy is the prime concern; thus, capital expenditures (CAPEX) and operations and maintenance expenditures (OPEX) are the major design objectives.
   This paper describes the electrical power conversion aspects of river and tidal generation. Although modern power converter control is available to control the generation side, the design was chosen on the bases of minimizing the CAPEX and OPEX; thus, the architecture is simple and modular for ease of replacement and maintenance. The power conversion is simplified by considering a simple diode bridge and a DC-DC power converter to take advantage of abundant and low-cost photovoltaic inverters that have well-proven grid integration characteristics (i.e., the capability to produce energy with good power quality and control real power and voltage on the grid side).
UT WOS:000389280900085
ER

PT J
AU Orwa, J
   Temmerman, M
   Nyaga, L
   Mulama, K
   Luchters, S
AF Orwa, James
   Temmerman, Marleen
   Nyaga, Lucy
   Mulama, Kennedy
   Luchters, Stanley
TI Health facilities preparedness to deliver maternal and newborn health
   care in Kilifi and Kisii Counties, Kenya
DE Community health systems; Maternal child health; Quality of care;
   Preparedness; Obstetric delivery
ID MORTALITY; MALARIA; BURDEN
AB IntroductionHealth facility preparedness is essential for delivering quality maternal and newborn care, minimizing morbidity and mortality by addressing delays in seeking skilled care, reaching appropriate facilities, and receiving emergency care. A rapid assessment of 23 government health facilities in Kilifi and Kisii counties identified poor maternal and newborn indicators in 16 facilities. The Access to Quality Care through Extending and Strengthening Health Systems (AQCESS) project supported these facilities with training, equipment, and referral linkages. This study focuses on facility preparedness of the 16 facilities to deliver maternal and newborn health services, specifically delays two and three at the end of the project implementation.MethodsA descriptive cross-sectional study was carried-out on behalf of AQCESS project team by respective county ministry of health in-charge of reproductive maternal newborn and child health programs and trained nurses and medical doctors from Aga Khan health services in December 2019. The study evaluated the accessibility and reliability of drugs, commodities, equipment, personnel, basic necessities (such as water and electricity), and guidelines using validated World Health Organization service availability and readiness assessment tool. The findings of the assessment are presented through frequency and percentage analysis, along with a comparative analysis between the two counties.ResultsAll the 16 facilities assessed offered routine antenatal care (ANC) and normal delivery, but only two provided comprehensive emergency obstetric and newborn care (CEmONC). Most essential medicines, commodities, and required equipment were available. BEmONC and CEmONC guidelines were present in Kilifi, not in Kisii. One staff member was available 24/7 for cesarean section (CS) in each county, with one anesthetist in Kilifi. Electricity was accessible in all facilities, but only half had secondary power supply. Facilities offering CS had backup generators.ConclusionThe Facilities assessed had necessary drugs, commodities, equipment, and requirements, but staffing and guidelines were limited. Kilifi outperformed Kisii in most indicators. Additional support is needed for infrastructure and human resources to deliver quality maternal and newborn health services. Continuous monitoring will facilitate resource allocation based on facility needs.
UT WOS:001049185300003
ER

PT J
AU Ebrahim, OS
   Badr, MA
AF Ebrahim, O. S.
   Badr, M. A.
TI An induction machine-based drive system and supervisory control for
   application to smart water-pumped storage and networks
DE artificial intelligence; energy saving; fault tolerant control;
   induction machine; internet of things; power quality; reliability;
   water-power networks
ID VOLTAGE
AB The authors present an effective induction machine (IM) drive system and intelligent supervisory control for application to smart water-pumped storage and networks. The main IM drive unit comprises reduced voltage starter, regenerative clutch/variable speed mode fluid coupling and reversible pump to allow bidirectional power flow. Under the wide umbrella of supervisory control, the following objectives are achieved: (1) Recurrent neural network (RNN) and RNN-aided Kalman filter are proposed for wired and wireless sensor fault-tolerant control of the plant based on Wald's likelihood ratio test. (2) Cheap fuzzy logic-based availability assessment scheme is presented and deployed on cloud to arrange for preventive maintenance of the starter. (3) Robust energy saving mode decision-making algorithm is developed for best energetic cost reduction. (4) Remote synchronisation method of multi-motor starting with a mechanically switched capacitor is introduced to minimise voltage dip. Further, an auxiliary inverter fed pump unit is adopted to improve system availability and revenue. The validity and superiority of the proposed drive system and control are confirmed through theoretical analysis, computer simulations, cost study, efficiency evaluation and application example to a single-pump water network during motor and generator operational modes using preliminary test results.
UT WOS:001368027100001
ER

PT C
AU Chen, Z
   Subramanian, R
   Chung, L
   Cooper, KML
AF Chen, Zhuo
   Subramanian, Rajasekar
   Chung, Lawrence
   Cooper, Kendra M. L.
BE Ahram, T
   Karwowski, W
   Schmorrow, D
TI Exploring a Timed-Automata Fuzzy Cognitive Maps based approach for
   modeling Systems of Systems
DE Systems of Systems; Timed Automata Fuzzy Cognitive Maps; Modeling
ID PREDICTION
AB The need for effectively developing high quality solutions for very large scale, complex problems continues to drive research in modeling and analyzing System of Systems (SoS). These kinds of systems span numerous domains, including essential infrastructure (water, power, transportation, emergency response, healthcare, education, finance, military, environmental protectionetc.). A SoS is composed of independent, autonomous constituent systems; the SoS provides emergent behavior that goes beyond the capabilities of its constituent systems. Having the capability to predict the emergent behavior would be very valuable in assessing the impact of changes in a constituent system's behavior on the emergent behavior of the SoS. For example, if a constituent system is being added, modified, or retired, how will this impact the SoS? In this paper, we explore a new approach to model a SoS, with a focus on emergent behavior for non-functional properties (e.g., safety, reliability etc.,). The approach is based on the visual, formal method Timed-Automata-Based Fuzzy Cognitive Maps (TA-FCMs). A published case study on a water treatment SoS for the Beijing Nanshahe River Basin is used in this work. In future work, we plan to refine our modeling approach and continue on with investigating approach to provide the predictive analysis and formal verification. (C) 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.
UT WOS:000383740302004
ER

PT C
AU Li, K
   Roudaut, A
   Rashid, A
AF Li, Karen
   Roudaut, Anne
   Rashid, Awais
GP ACM
TI Vision: Security-Usability Threat Modeling for Industrial Control
   Systems
DE Industrial Control Systems; Programmable Logic Controller; Security
   Usability; Web Server Case Study
AB Industrial Control System (ICS) that run large-scale systems such as water, power and manufacturing are increasingly in focus given high profile attacks against such infrastructures. These systems are connected to IT systems and the Internet, the intersections of their users - typically control systems engineers and operators with security requirements and systems add to the complexity of the threats faced by these environments. The challenges of usable security in IT systems have been studied extensively, including work on security-usability threat modeling (i.e. lack of usability exacerbating security issues). However, no work has examined similar challenges within ICS settings where, in addition to the regular requirements of information confidentiality, information integrity and information availability, requirements such as process safety, process integrity and process reliability are paramount for the users. Using the case of a Programmable Logic Controller (PLC), we detail the workflow that the user undertake for a security task. We analyze this workflow using STRIDE, an established threat modeling approach. We then map the threats against an existing security-usability threat model for IT systems whilst also taking into account the specific process-related requirements critical to ICS users. We then derive an initial security-usability threat model for ICS as a first step towards further work in this regard.
UT WOS:001117711600009
ER

PT J
AU Wang, L
   Zhang, Y
   Hu, QS
   Wang, XM
   Zhang, XD
   Hu, JS
   Yang, Y
   Gu, XM
AF Wang, L.
   Zhang, Y.
   Hu, Q. S.
   Wang, X. M.
   Zhang, X. D.
   Hu, J. S.
   Yang, Y.
   Gu, X. M.
TI Design and construction of vacuum control system on EAST
DE EAST; pumping system; gas injection system; PLC; remote control and
   monitoring
ID RFX
AB The construction of experimental advanced superconducting tokamak (EAST) was finished at the end of 2006 in Hefei, China. Its vacuum system, an important subsystem, has been commissioned in February 2006. The design and construction of this vacuum control system are described in this paper. The requirements for remote automation, distributed control and centralized management, high reliability and expansibility have been taken into account in the design.
   There are three levels of control in vacuum control system. The bottom level control is performed on the local instruments manually; the medium level control is based on Siemens S7-400 PLC; the top level control is conducted on IPCs with communication through profi_bus network. In addition remote handling and centralized monitoring could be realized by a remote control server.
   The control system could achieve pumping and fueling of the whole vacuum system. Besides that, it also includes the data acquisition of the pressure and temperature. The details are discussed on the monitoring of vacuum system states including cooling water, power and compressed air, etc., safeguards of plasma chamber and cryostat chamber and vacuum equipments, choosing of control modes corresponding to the plasma discharge and wall conditioning. At the end, the parts of EAST device protection system related to vacuum and gas injection system will also be introduced. (c) 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000256778800031
ER

PT J
AU Li, S
   Hu, BB
   Zhai, CH
   Pineda, P
AF Li, Shuang
   Hu, Binbin
   Zhai, Changhai
   Pineda, Paloma
TI A generalized method for evaluating immediate post-earthquake losses of
   buildings from different perspectives
DE Functional loss; Direct economic loss; Direct social loss; Belief rule
   base; Resilience-based seismic design
ID SEISMIC RESILIENCE; MITIGATION; FRAMEWORK
AB The evaluation of immediate post-earthquake losses of buildings is crucial for advancing resilience-based seismic design. To facilitate the development of resilient buildings, a generalized method suitable for any occupancy type of building is proposed to evaluate immediate post-earthquake losses of buildings from engineering, economic, and social perspectives. A functional composition diagram of the building story is constructed, and the story functionality is quantified by using the hierarchical belief rule base inference method based on the evidential reasoning algorithm. The functional composition diagram incorporates the service status of utility systems, such as power, water, communication, heating, and drainage networks, to reflect their impact on the story functionality. Intra-story damage relevance and inter-story functionality relevance of the building are also considered in the functional loss evaluation. To evaluate direct economic loss, two methods for calculating the repair cost ratio are proposed. The choice of method hinges on the level of detail available. Direct social loss is quantified in terms of the casualty ratio, with considerations for the varying impacts of different casualty severity levels on society. Applying this generalized method to a teaching building, the results show that the functional loss is more severe compared to the direct economic and social losses. From the perspective of resilience-based seismic design, it is essential to focus on mitigating functional losses of buildings. This method can provide guidance for pre-earthquake strengthening efforts and post-earthquake recovery strategies for buildings and contribute to advancing resilience-based seismic design.
UT WOS:001483393700001
ER

PT J
AU Soleimani, N
   Davidson, RA
   Kendra, J
   Ewing, B
   Nozick, LK
AF Soleimani, Nafiseh
   Davidson, Rachel A.
   Kendra, James
   Ewing, Bradley
   Nozick, Linda K.
TI Household Adaptations to and Impacts from Electric Power and Water
   Outages in the Texas 2021 Winter Storm
ID DISASTER
AB In February 2021, a winter storm brought snow, ice, and freezing temperatures, which caused severe interruptions in the electric power and water supply systems in Texas and surrounding areas. In this paper, we use survey data to investigate the ways that households adapted and reacted to those outages. The analysis aimed to determine (1) how common different household adaptations were, (2) how adaptations varied with outage and household characteristics, (3) how adaptations tended to occur together, (4) how unhappy households were as a result, (5) how household unhappiness varied with outage and household characteristics, and (6) what concerns influenced the unhappiness level. Results are compared with findings from a study that used an almost identical survey instrument but was based on a larger data set from Los Angeles. Findings from both studies suggest that almost everyone implemented at least one adaptation; most implemented several. They also agreed the most common adaptations were using candles, a flashlight, and/or a lantern; charging the cell phone in the car; purchasing bottled water; and delaying or reducing consumption. Both studies indicate that households experienced varied levels of unhappiness, which were similar for electric power and water interruptions. The reported levels of unhappiness were notably higher in Texas than Los Angeles, however, possibly because the outages had relatively long durations and were recent. Financial, time/effort, health, and stress concerns all were found to have a substantial influence on the extent of unhappiness, in both the Texas and Los Angeles analyses, suggesting that it is critical to consider all of them. Analysis of the Texas study introduced the new finding that repeated service outages during an event is associated with both increased adaptation implementation and greater unhappiness. Analyzing larger data sets from additional events in different locations would be helpful to further understanding of household experiences in service outages.
   Several practical applications emerge from this work. First, by knowing how people are likely to adapt, officials can better prepare to support their constituents during a crisis. Anticipating the distribution of unhappiness could point infrastructure operators to consider other measures for service quality besides downtime alone, as important as that is. Knowing the differential effects of outages on different populations can improve officials' understanding of social vulnerabilities in their communities, which is needed for planning, education, and outreach. Electric and water outages accompany many kinds of hazard events; the extent to which a local population can adapt, and how officials and infrastructure operators can enhance those adaptations, will be important elements of local community resilience.
UT WOS:001068552200006
ER

PT J
AU Tigrine, Z
   Aburideh, H
   Zioui, D
   Hout, S
   Sahraoui, N
   Benchoubane, Y
   Izem, A
   Tassalit, D
   Yahiaoui, FZ
   Khateb, M
   Drouiche, N
   Lebouachera, SE
AF Tigrine, Zahia
   Aburideh, Hanene
   Zioui, Djamila
   Hout, Sarra
   Sahraoui, Naima
   Benchoubane, Yasmine
   Izem, Amina
   Tassalit, Djilali
   Yahiaoui, Fatma Zohra
   Khateb, Mohamed
   Drouiche, Nadjib
   Lebouachera, Seif El Islam
TI Feasibility Study of a Reverse Osmosis Desalination Unit Powered by
   Photovoltaic Panels for a Sustainable Water Supply in Algeria
DE reverse osmosis; desalination; membrane; temperature; seawater;
   renewable energy; photovoltaic; energy consumption
ID RENEWABLE ENERGY; TECHNOLOGY; SYSTEM; PLANT
AB In recent years, reverse osmosis water desalination has developed rapidly and has become the most competitive and widely used technology in the world. The number of desalination plants is increasing rapidly as freshwater needs increase. Various membrane technologies have been developed and improved, including nanofiltration (NF) and reverse osmosis (RO), whose desalination costs have been relatively reduced. Therefore, this work proposes an experimental study for a small desalination unit based on RO generated by renewable energy, which is mainly suitable for arid regions or desert areas that do not have electricity and water and can be applied for emergency treatment to meet strong freshwater resource needs. In this study, to meet the drinking water demand, a reverse osmosis desalination system is designed and evaluated in order to improve and optimize its operation. This system has a daily capacity of 2 m(3). We used brackish groundwater, which has been characterized as reference water, to produce synthetic water for different salinities until seawater. The analysis is based on data obtained from experiments carried out in the standalone RO pilot designed for the production of fresh water. For this purpose, we conducted relevant experiments to examine the influence of applied pressure, salt concentration and temperature on the RO membrane performance. The effects of different factors that affect the energy consumption in the RO desalination process were analyzed, and those with significant influence were explored. The effectiveness of RO desalination coupled with a photovoltaic (PV) energy system is shown. We found the recovery rate for system operation to be 32%. An optimization study is presented for the operation of an autonomous RO desalination system powered by photovoltaic panels. The energy produced by the PV system was used to feed two pumps forthe production of drinking waterwithanRO membrane, under the conditions of the town of Bou-Ismail. As results, a 3 kWp PV system was installed based on the energy demand. The design data have shown that a 3 kWp PV system can power a 1.8 W RO load given the Bou-Ismail climate. Energy consumption in the case study under Bou-Ismail weather conditions were analyzed. The desalination of brackish water at a TDS value of 5 g/L requires an energy of about 1.5 kWh/m(3). Using seawater at a TDS value of 35 g/L, this value increases to 5.6 kWh/m(3). The results showed that the optimal recovery rate for system operation was determined to be 32% for a feedwater salinity of 35 g/L, and 80% for a feedwater salinity of 1 g/L.
UT WOS:001145801200001
ER

PT C
AU Kumar, A
   Govil, K
   Dwivedi, G
   Chhabra, M
AF Kumar, Aman
   Govil, Kunal
   Dwivedi, Gaurav
   Chhabra, Mayank
BE Yadav, N
   Yadav, A
   Bansal, JC
   Deep, K
   Kim, JH
TI Problems Associated with Hydraulic Turbines
DE Cavitation; Fatigue; Silt erosion
ID CAVITATION; OPERATION; FLOW
AB Hydropower is a renewable source of energy and considered to be one of the most cost-efficient and environmentally friendly technology for electricity production. Hydropower has operational flexibility like quick starting, stopping and load variations, these help in improving the reliability of power systems by allowing it to work in different conditions. In the late nineteenth century, hydropower became a source for generating electricity. Hydropower is the most important and widely used renewable source of power. The hydropower reserves of India have been estimated by the Central water and power commission to have a potential for installing 411,180 MW. Earlier hydroelectric plants have been used as exclusive sources of power, now the modern trend is bending towards the use of hydropower in an interconnected system with thermal stations. This paper focuses on the recent progress in the study of hydraulic machinery including pumps, and hydro turbines and the problems that revolve around them. Since these instabilities are a vital issue and rather harmful to the operational safety of hydro machines, these problems have been extensively discussed in literature and to some extent in our review. This study provides the in-depth analysis of the problems associated with the hydro machinery like cavitation, material related problems, silt erosion, fatigue, etc., and demands focus on design, manufacturing, operation, and maintenance of the turbines. This is followed by our deduction on what is required to improve their working and a sensor based online inspection model for ease of surveillance and maintenance.
UT WOS:000560389900060
ER

PT J
AU Hernandez-Fajardo, I
   Dueñas-Osorio, L
AF Hernandez-Fajardo, Isaac
   Duenas-Osorio, Leonardo
TI Probabilistic study of cascading failures in complex interdependent
   lifeline systems
DE Lifeline Systems; Interdependence; Cascading failures; Local redundancy;
   Fragility propagation; Seismic hazard; Random failures
ID RELIABILITY; PROPAGATION; EARTHQUAKE; FRAGILITY; NETWORKS
AB The internal complexity of lifeline systems and their standing interdependencies can operate in conjunction to amplify the negative effects of external disruptions. This paper introduces a simulation-based methodology to evaluate the joint impact of interdependence, component fragilities, and cascading failures in systemic fragility estimates. The proposed strategy uses a graph model of interdependent networks, an enhanced betweenness centrality for cascading failures approximation, and an interdependence model accounting for coupling uncertainty in the simulation of damage propagation for probabilistic performance assessment. This methodology is illustrated through its application to a realistic set of power and water networks subjected to earthquake scenarios and random failures. Test case results reveal two key insights: (1) the intensity of a perturbation influences interdependent systemic fragility by shaping the magnitudes of initial component damage and, sometimes counter-intuitively, the subsequent interdependence effects and (2) increasing local redundancy mitigates the effects of interdependence on systemic performance, but such intervention is incapable of eliminating interdependent effects completely. The previous insights provide basic guidelines for the design of systemic retrofitting policies. Additionally, the limitations of local capacity redundancy as a fragility control measure highlight the need for a critical assessment of intervention strategies in distributed infrastructure networks. Future work will assess the fragility-reduction efficiency of strategies involving informed manipulation of individual systemic topologies and the interdependence interfaces connecting them. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000314203600027
ER

PT C
AU Omidian, S
   Oskooi, B
   Abbaspour, K
AF Omidian, Safieh
   Oskooi, Behrooz
   Abbaspour, Karim
GP SGEM
TI USAGE OF SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM FOR ECONOMIC AND CULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND
   REVIVAL OF THE GREAT DESERT OF IRAN
DE Development phases; desert revival; solar energy; tourism
AB Iran is a country with an area of 1,648,198 Km(2) in the Middle East. When it comes to sun, there are 300 days of pure high UV sunshine in 95% of the country. There is a triangular great desert from center to the East of Iran, which due to its position receives a large amount of solar energy. Because this area is enclosed by the high ridge Alburz Mountains in the North, the Zagros Mountains in the West and the Makran Mountains in the East, there is no climate variability and also its geographical and environmental conditions are exceptional.
   However, according to the historical evidence, people lived in prosperity in this region since 5000 years BC. Archeological findings show specific techniques were used to live in harmony with the rough nature and in fact many regions were along the largest commercial way (the Silk Road) in this region.
   With respect to the historical records, our objectives in this project include finding suitable conditions for the usage of solar energy technology, recovery of the desert for settling people, and developing the tourism industry.
   The potential development of Iranian deserts is comparable to Taklamakan in China. The experience from Taklamakan would be helpful in the progress of the Iranian deserts. Initially, the purpose of the study will be the introduction of development stages as a tourist attraction site and eventually switching the region to a place for permanent residence.
   This study uses the Sarvestan village as an experimental site, which is located in the desert margins and has been abandoned due to lack of water and electricity. To recover this rural area, which is a small part of the desert, five scientific phases are defined. These stages, respectively, will start with initial studies of geology and geophysics, hydrology, surface water drainage, estimation of green plant's development, and eventually will finish with creation of a sustainable environment based on the solar energy system.
UT WOS:000307366500019
ER

PT C
AU Anim, DO
   Kabo-bah, AT
   Nkrumah, PN
   Li, YP
AF Anim, Desmond Ofosu
   Kabo-bah, Amos Tiereyangn
   Nkrumah, Philip Nti
   Li, Yiping
BE Zhaoyin, W
   Lee, JHW
   Jizhang, G
   Shuyou, C
TI Flood Hazard Analysis in Ghana Using Multi-temporal Spot-xs imagery: a
   Feasibility Study of Northern Region
DE Flood; Northern ghana; MNDWI; Spectral water index; SPOT-5
ID DIFFERENCE WATER INDEX; NDWI; GIS; DELINEATION; FEATURES; SCALES;
   EXTENT; CHINA
AB Flood is one of the known natural hazards affecting the environment, human livelihood and economies of nations across the globe. In the northern part of Ghana, regarded as the most flood prone zone, flood hazards have almost become an integral pattern of the annual hydrological cycle. These adversely affect the sustenance and general well-being of millions of people in the region. Moderately and severe flooding cases have been recorded which has seriously affected the people and the economy in this part of the country. However, general reliance of weather data as mostly the case is not enough to monitor areas of flood especially when those data can be sparse, limited, untimely and incomplete. The use of satellite data to augment this to identify the location and susceptibility of an area to flood events has become necessary and timely for a complete, up-to-date and comprehensive coverage of current flood situations. The study thus attempts to investigate the use of multi-spectral SPOT 5 imagery to do a feasibility study of flood hazard analysis and mapping applying the concept of Spectral Water Index (SWI) herein Modified Normalized Difference Water Index (MNDWI). The MNDWI has the ability to delineate water and non-water features in an area. It thereby gives a spatially and temporally continuous short-term indicator of flood conditions and susceptibility. The results shows that the MNDWI coupled with other land monitoring data for the study area could be utilized to successfully map and zone flood risk susceptibility sites. The flood hazard map generated from the results identifies; regions around these areas which are susceptible to the hazard, hazard free regions suitable for development, hazardous regions where if development has taken place requires measures to be taken to minimize vulnerability and regions where hazard investigations are required. This work if conducted over a long period of time can provide sufficient baseline information for the monitoring, evaluation and effective management of flood events in the Northern Ghana. This can help government to save valuable lives lost each year and also monetary expenses which could be used for the building of other important facilities such as road infrastructure, electricity and water services. This case presented here, can easily be duplicated in most parts of Ghana that face similar problems.
UT WOS:000343761504058
ER

PT J
AU Ayli, BI
   Demir, ME
   Akgül, A
   Sahin, H
AF Ayli, Berrak Itir
   Demir, Mehmet Emin
   Akgul, Arzu
   Sahin, Hatice
TI Environmental footprint of in-center hemodialysis in Türkiye: A
   national, scenario-based analysis of water, energy, and waste
ID DIALYSIS
AB Background <p style="margin-left:0px; margin-right:0px">Hemodialysis (HD) is a life-sustaining but resource-intensive therapy, consuming large volumes of water and electricity and generating substantial waste. This hybrid modeling study quantified the environmental footprint of in-center HD in T & uuml;rkiye using national registry data, published parameters, and measured facility-level data from two Turkish dialysis centers. Methods <p style="margin-left:0px; margin-right:0px">A hybrid modeling approach combined published per-session resource parameters with measured facility-level data from two Turkish hemodialysis centers (4,000 sessions/month combined). Literature-derived parameters (493 L water/session at 42% RO recovery, 6.2-19.6 kWh electricity/session, 1.5-8.0 kg waste/session) were scaled nationally for 2023 (9.27 million sessions). Measured Turkish data (390 L water, 10.8 kWh electricity, 1.19 kg hazardous waste per session) provided empirical calibration. GHG emissions were calculated using T & uuml;rkiye-specific (0.494 kg CO(2)e/kWh for electricity) and international conversion factors. Results <p style="margin-left:0px; margin-right:0px">Using literature parameters, annual national estimates include 4.57 million m & sup3; water, 57.5-181.8 GWh electricity, and 13.9-74.2 kt waste, with total GHG emissions ranging from 45.3 to 171.1 kt CO(2)e/year. Measured Turkish facility data yielded lower per-session water consumption (similar to 390 L vs. 493 L, a 21% reduction) and hazardous waste generation (1.19 vs. 1.5 kg/session under good segregation), while electricity consumption (mean 10.8 kWh/session) aligned with the moderate literature scenario. Electricity was the dominant emission source (63-72%), followed by waste incineration (up to 47% with poor segregation). Conclusion <p style="margin-left:0px; margin-right:0px">In-center HD in T & uuml;rkiye imposes a substantial yet modifiable environmental burden. Measured Turkish facility data demonstrated that actual water consumption is meaningfully lower than international estimates, highlighting the importance of locally validated parameters. Waste segregation and electricity decarbonization represent the highest-impact intervention points for reducing the sector's carbon footprint.
UT WOS:001837365900011
ER

PT C
AU Cheung, CM
   Kannan, R
   Prasanna, VK
AF Cheung, Chung Ming
   Kannan, Rajgopal
   Prasanna, Viktor K.
GP IEEE
TI Temporal Ensemble Learning of Univariate Methods for Short Term Load
   Forecasting
DE Smart grids; Short Term Load Forecasting; Machine Learning; Ensemble
   Learning
ID PREDICTION; CONSUMPTION; DEMAND
AB Short term load forecasting (STLF) is a fundamental component of demand response programs in smart grids. Recent literature has focused on complex neural networks and deep learning models for solving STLF. While these models work well for load forecasting with complex non-linear relationships, they have been shown to be less effective than simpler univariate models for STLF problems with under a 6 hours horizon. Given the lack of multivariate data (such as temperature) in many practical datasets, we need better univariate prediction models for STLF. By partitioning the dataset by temporal features, we develop a novel ensemble learning method that exploits daily seasonality in electricity consumption data to improve accuracy of popular univariate models. We train an ensemble of models from the dataset partitions. We develop a variety of methods, including Ridge Regression, to increase the robustness of the ensemble prediction.
   To show the effectiveness of our approach, we perform detailed evaluation using an aggregated user electricity consumption dataset collected by the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power (LADWP). We select four popular prediction algorithms in literature for our experiments, including Kernel Regression (KR), Support Vector Regression (SVR) and neural network approaches. We compare the performance of these algorithms applying our ensemble approach to training only one single model. Our approach leads to an 11.2% decrease in mean absolute percentage error (MAPE) and 21.3% decrease in root mean squared error (RMSE) over the single model approach for KR, and a 30% and 32.4% decrease in MAPE and RMSE respectively for SVR. These ensemble models also outperform the neural network approaches.
UT WOS:000578037600056
ER

PT J
AU Tian, CM
   Jaffar, MN
   Ramji, HR
   Abdullah, MO
AF Tian, Chuan Min
   Jaffar, Mohd Narzam
   Ramji, Harunal Rejan
   Abdullah, Mohammad Omar
TI Custom design of a hanging cooling water power generating system applied
   to a sensitive cooling water discharge weir in a seaside power plant: A
   challenging energy scheme
DE Critical energy scheme; Exhaust cooling water; Hanging energy recovery
   system; System efficiency; Techno-economic
ID HYDRO
AB In this study, an innovative design of hydro-electricity system was applied to an unconventional site in an attempt to generate electricity from the exhaust cooling water of a coal-fired power plant. Inspired by the idea of micro hydro, present study can be considered new in three aspects: design, resource and site. This system was hung at a cooling water discharge weir, where all sorts of civil work were prohibited and sea water was used as the cooling water. It was designed and fabricated in the university's mechanical workshop and transported to the site for installation. The system was then put into proof run for a three-month period and achieved some success. Due to safety reasons, on-site testing was prohibited by the power plant authority. Hence, most data was acquired from the proof run. The driving system efficiency was tested in the range of 25% and 45% experimentally while modeling results came close to experimental results. Payback period for the system is estimated to be about 4.23 years. Result obtained validates the feasibility of the overall design under the sensitive site application. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000351248200050
ER

PT J
AU Cíchová, M
   Proksová, M
   Tóthová, L
   Sántha, H
   Mayer, V
AF Cichova, Marianna
   Proksova, Miloslava
   Tothova, Livia
   Santha, Hunor
   Mayer, Viktor
TI On-line cell lysis of bacteria and its spores using a microfluidic
   biochip
DE Cell lysis; Chelex 100; Microfluidic biochip; SYBR Green real-time PCR;
   Waterborne pathogens
ID POLYMERASE-CHAIN-REACTION; DNA EXTRACTION; RAPID DETECTION; PCR; WATER;
   OPTIMIZATION; SALMONELLA
AB Optimal detection of pathogens by molecular methods in water samples depends on the ability to extract DNA rapidly and efficiently. In this study, an innovative method was developed using a microfluidic biochip, produced by microelectrochemical system technology, and capable of performing online cell lysis and DNA extraction during a continuous flow process. On-chip cell lysis based on chemical/physical methods was performed by employing a sufficient blend of water with the lysing buffer. The efficiency of lysis with microfluidic biochip was compared with thermal lysis in Eppendorf tubes and with two commercial DNA extraction kits: Power Water DNA isolation kit and ForensicGEM Saliva isolation kit in parallel tests. Two lysing buffers containing 1% Triton X-100 or 5% Chelex were assessed for their lysis effectiveness on a microfluidic biochip. SYBR Green real-time PCR analysis revealed that cell lysis on a microfluidic biochip using 5% Chelex buffer provided better or comparable recovery of DNA than commercial isolation kits. The system yielded better results for Gram-positive bacteria than for Gram-negative bacteria and spores of Gram-positive bacteria, within the limits of detection at 10(3) CFU/ml. During the continuous flow process in the system, rapid cells lysis with PCR-amplifiable genomic DNA were achieved within 20 minutes.
UT WOS:000302476500006
ER

PT J
AU Gao, GY
   Liang, Y
   Liu, JB
   Dunkerley, D
   Fu, BJ
AF Gao, Guangyao
   Liang, Yue
   Liu, Jianbo
   Dunkerley, David
   Fu, Bojie
TI A modified RUSLE model to simulate soil erosion under different
   ecological restoration types in the loess hilly area
DE Soil erosion; Rainfall intensity fluctuation; Vegetation restoration;
   USLE/RUSLE model; Loess plateau
ID RAINFALL INTENSITY; USLE-M; STORM VARIATIONS; BARE PLOTS; RUNOFF;
   PRECIPITATION; PATTERNS; PLATEAU
AB Soil erosion is mainly affected by the rainfall characteristics and land cover conditions, and soil erosion modelling is important for evaluating land degradation status. The revised Universal Soil Loss Equation (RUSLE) have been widely used to simulate soil loss rate. Previous studies usually considered the general rainfall characteristics and direct effect of runoff with the event rainfall erosivity factor (R-e) to produce event soil loss (A(e)), whereas the fluctuation of rainfall intensity within the natural rainfall profile has rarely been considered. In this study, the relative amplitude of rainfall intensity (R-am) was proposed to generalize the features of rainfall intensity fluctuation under natural rainfall, and it was incorporated in a new R-e (R-e=RamEI30) to develop the RUSLE model considering the fluctuation of rainfall intensity (RUSLE-F). The simulation performance of RUSLE-F model was compared with RUSLE-M1 model (R-e=EI30) and RUSLE-M2 model (R-e=Q(R)EI(30)) using observations in field plots of grassland, orchard and shrubland during 2011-2016 in a loess hilly catchment of China. The results indicated that the relationship between A(e) and RamEI30 was well described by a power function with higher R-2 values (0.82-0.96) compared to Q(R)EI(30) (0.80-0.88) and EI30 (0.24-0.28). The RUSLE-F model much improved the accuracy in simulating A(e) with higher NSE (0.55-0.79 vs -0.11 similar to 0.54) and lower RMSE (0.82-1.67 vs 1.04-2.49) than RUSLE-M1 model. Furthermore, the RUSLE-F model had better simulation performance than RUSLE-M2 model under grassland and orchard, and more importantly the rainfall data in the RUSLE-F model can be easily obtained compared to the measurements or estimations of runoff data required by the RUSLE-M2 model. This study highlighted the paramount importance of rainfall intensity fluctuation in event soil loss prediction, and the RUSLE-F model contributed to the further development of USLE/RUSLE family of models. (c) 2023 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BYNC -ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
UT WOS:001225666200001
ER

PT J
AU Hai, T
   Ali, MA
   Alizadeh, A
   Zhou, JC
   Dhahad, HA
   Singh, PK
   Almojil, SF
   Almohana, AI
   Alali, AF
   Shamseldin, M
AF Hai, Tao
   Ali, Masood Ashraf
   Alizadeh, As'ad
   Zhou, Jincheng
   Dhahad, Hayder A.
   Singh, Pradeep Kumar
   Almojil, Sattam Fahad
   Almohana, Abdulaziz Ibrahim
   Alali, Abdulrhman Fahmi
   Shamseldin, Mohamed
TI Recurrent neural networks optimization of biomass-based solid oxide fuel
   cells combined with the hydrogen fuel electrolyzer and reverse osmosis
   water desalination
DE Biomass; Gasification; Hydrogen fuel; Fuel cell; Optimization;
   Desalination
ID WASTE HEAT-RECOVERY; MULTIOBJECTIVE OPTIMIZATION; THERMOECONOMIC
   ANALYSIS; ENVIRONMENTAL-ANALYSIS; PEM ELECTROLYZER; EXERGY ANALYSIS;
   ENERGY; SYSTEM; SOFC; GASIFICATION
AB The current research study focuses on modeling solid oxide fuel cell (SOFC) power plants. For this purpose, in the research, three Integrated processes are presented to achieve the most optimal system from the perspective of energy and economics. An integrated SOFC is considered in the first model, the second model is focused on using the wasted heat from the first model as the entry of the Stirling engine, and in the third model, the excess energy of the Stirling engine is used to produce hydrogen with the help of proton exchange membrane electrolyze and also power generated by the first model turbine is used in desalination system to produce fresh water. Power generation and hydrogen production from the systems are considered the main two objective functions. Results show that in the presented system the most optimal state of energy efficiency is 39.6% and with an economic cost of 10.30 dollars per hour. The results also indicate that the presented energy system can produce 191 kW of output power, and 23 kg/s of hydrogen fuel with an economic cost of nearly 11 dollars/hour at its working point.
UT WOS:000988205900001
ER

PT J
AU Zamzam, M
   Namjoo, A
   Javaran, EJ
AF Zamzam, Morteza
   Namjoo, Amin
   Javaran, Ebrahim Jahanshahi
TI Techno-economic evaluation of a gas turbine-based power, water
   desalination and cooling system
DE Gas turbine; Organic Rankine cycle; Desalination; Cooling; Economic
   analysis
ID MULTIOBJECTIVE OPTIMIZATION; THERMOECONOMIC ANALYSIS; RO DESALINATION;
   EXERGOECONOMIC ANALYSIS; REVERSE-OSMOSIS; HEAT-RECOVERY; 4E ANALYSIS;
   ENERGY; PERFORMANCE; PLANT
AB The present research has been concerned with the techno-economic evaluation of combined power, desalination and cooling system run by the exhaust flue gases of a gas turbine in Iran. In addition to using power generated by the gas turbine, attempts were made to use the organic Rankine cycle (ORC) to recover the heat dissipated from the gas turbine and reproduce power. Choosing the appropriate technology for the combined system involving the simultaneous production of power, freshwater, and cooling based on energy and economic analysis was investigated using MATLAB software. The results showed that a multiple-effect distillation system with the freshwater price of 1 $/m(3) should be used to produce the high tonnage freshwater; to achieve the proper price of freshwater, reverse osmosis applied by giving priority to the ORC power; then, GT applications have been suggested. Additionally, R123 was selected as a working fluid. According to the calculated price of the power sale, the sale of gas turbine power could be approximately 0.1 $/kW/h. Regarding the cooling system, it should be stated that the absorption system has a low price and high cooling load production, and a compression cooling system could be used only at low temperatures.
UT WOS:000545027300006
ER

PT J
AU Akhtyrskiy, KA
   Kabirov, VA
   Semenov, VD
   Torgaeva, DS
AF Akhtyrskiy, K. A.
   Kabirov, V. A.
   Semenov, V. D.
   Torgaeva, D. S.
TI Solar-hydrogen power supply system and multichannel median signal
   selector for spacecraft miniaturization
DE Solar-hydrogen system; Selection element; Median signal selection
   element; Deep redundancy; Reliability; Power supply system; Spacecraft;
   Simulation
AB Solar-hydrogen energy systems for spacecraft reliably provide energy for carrying out various kinds of unscheduled work on board and for eliminating emergency situations. Surplus energy is constantly accumulated on board in the form of the chemical energy of cryogenic hydrogen. The solar-hydrogen spacecraft power supply system is based on the principle of partial conversion of excess energy generated on board into gaseous and cryogenic hydrogen. The efficiency of converting sunlight into hydrogen is 14%. Solar-hydrogen energy systems are also called rechargeable hydrogen cells. They consist of solar panels that generate electricity, water tanks and a membrane that separates hydrogen and oxygen. The power supply system implements three modes in its operation. Mode A- the planned amount of electrical energy generated by solar cells is consumed to meet the needs of the spacecraft in the normal mode. Mode B- from the excess electricity in excess of the energy consumption on board, the solar panels generate electricity, with the help of which water is electrolyzed. The resulting hydrogen is stored in special tanks and can be used during the peak period of energy consumption. Mode C- part of the hydrogen can be liquefied by the onboard cryogenerator and it can be used to generate electricity in fuel cells in super-peak power consumption situations: accidents, repairs, experiments that require a lot of energy. The efficiency of converting sunlight into cryogenic hydrogen is 5%. The article considers a new version of the median signal selection element, which provides the possibility of practically unlimited scaling of the number of input signals without loss of performance, as well as the ability to monitor malfunctions or failures in the operation of the selection element itself. The experiments have shown that the implementation of a selection element for 7 inputs takes no more than 432 logical cells on the Altera Cyclone IV EP4CE115F29C7 FPGA, which is much less than the amount occupied by the analogs discussed in the article. In this case, the delay in calculating the median signal does not exceed one FPGA cycle.
UT WOS:001407868800001
ER

PT J
AU Moghimi, M
   Emadi, M
   Akbarpoor, AM
   Mollaei, M
AF Moghimi, Mandi
   Emadi, Mohammadali
   Akbarpoor, Ali Mirzazade
   Mollaei, Mohammadreza
TI Energy and exergy investigation of a combined cooling, heating, power
   generation, and seawater desalination system
DE CCHP; Gas turbine; Multi-effect desalination (MED); HRSG; Ejector
   refrigeration system; Exergy
ID MULTIOBJECTIVE OPTIMIZATION; THERMOECONOMIC OPTIMIZATION;
   ENVIRONMENTAL-ANALYSES; EJECTOR; CYCLE; COGENERATION; PERFORMANCE;
   SIMULATION; PLANTS; WATER
AB In the present paper, a combined cooling, heating and power and a multi effect desalination with thermal vapor compression system was used to simultaneously produce electricity, fresh water, refrigeration, and hot water for domestic use. In order to link the Brayton cycle to the water desalination and ejector refrigeration systems, a dual-pressure heat recovery steam generator unit was utilized. In this research, the considered system was analyzed in terms of exergy and energy under various operational conditions and also pollution generated by combustion process is determined. To consider the effects of design parameters on the efficiency of the system, a parametric analysis was further conducted to examine influences of such factors as compressor compression ratio, inlet temperature of turbine, vapor pressure entering into the desalination unit, and the number of desalination units on exergy and energy efficiencies of the cycle. The results indicated the capability of the proposed system for providing fresh water, power, cooling and heating loads of 85.57 kg/s, 30 MW, 2.03 MW and 1.11 MW, respectively. Finally, total exergy destruction and exergy and energy efficiencies of the cycle were obtained to be 55.82 MW, 36.03%, and 39.22%, respectively.
UT WOS:000438006400074
ER

PT J
AU Ahuja, K
   Khosla, A
AF Ahuja, Kiran
   Khosla, Arun
TI A novel framework for data acquisition and ubiquitous communication
   provisioning in smart cities
DE HAN; WAN; CR; NAN; Heterogeneous networks; Ubiquitous communication
ID COGNITIVE RADIO NETWORKS; GRID APPLICATIONS; TECHNOLOGIES;
   ARCHITECTURES; REQUIREMENTS; CHALLENGES
AB Gigantic progressions in heterogeneous communication technologies have empowered smart cities (SCs) to communicate with each other, while ensuring network connectivity. These innovations cannot give impeccable network availability in SCs, because of the coexistence of thousands of gadgets, which realize some issues. In this paper, to resolve the issue of ubiquitous communication provisioning, the MADM techniques are employed for network selection in proposed scenarios under phase 1. Data rate, transmission power, latency, cost, reliability, coverage range, channel bandwidth and security attributes of diverse available networks are utilized for optimal network selection. Cohesive AHP-Entropy weights of respective attributes are derived from subjective weights generated by AHP and objective weights calculated by Entropy. Cohesive weights are employed by TOPSIS algorithm for ranking of the networks available in the vicinity of level 1, 2 and 3 of the communication networks hierarchy. The network with the highest preference level has been selected for communication. The implementation of proposed criterion showed that 3G (HSDPA), WLAN (802.11p), Bluetooth (802.15.1), WiMAX (802.16), WiFi haLow (802.11 ah), 4G have the highest preference level in proposed scenarios UPN, HN, HAN, CR, NAN/MAN and WAN environments respectively. The continuous monitoring of the connected networks and time-to-time selection of optimal networks is required for provisioning of ubiquitous communication in diverse applications (e.g. smart buildings and infrastructure services, smart traffic and transportation system, smart metering of electricity, water, gas and emergency calling services) of SCs. In phase 2, we propose a novel framework for data acquisition and provisioning of ubiquitous communication network in SCs. According to the suitability of applications, the data is acquired by proposed diverse acquisition techniques. Computing at diverse levels 1, 2 and 3 is described in phase 3 for provisioning of offloading, reducing delay and complexity. The overall framework resulted in real-time system scenario for smart cities in forthcoming days. (C) 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000501935700058
ER

PT J
AU Abdelsalam, E
   Almomani, F
   Azzam, A
   Al-Hyari, L
   Al Otoom, RA
   Qandil, H
AF Abdelsalam, Emad
   Almomani, Fares
   Azzam, Ahmad
   Al-Hyari, Laith
   Al Otoom, Ra'ed A.
   Qandil, Hassan
TI Integrating solar chimney and desalination process for sustainable
   hydrogen generation: Towards a greener future
DE Solar energy; Solar chimney; Cooling tower; Photovoltaic; Water
   distillation
ID OXIDE STEAM ELECTROLYZER; POWER-PLANT; WATER; PERFORMANCE; ENERGY;
   MODEL; TEMPERATURE; TRANSPORT
AB The increasing global demand for sustainable and efficient energy solutions has prompted the exploration of hybrid technologies that integrate multiple renewable energy source. This study presents comprehensive comparative analysis between the performance of the standalone Solar Chimney Power Plant (SCPP) and its integration Water Desalination and Power Production (WDPP) system. The systems were evaluated based on the improvements in electricity, water, hydrogen, and oxygen production. Results demonstrated that the integration of SCPP with WDPP proves is an effective approach for augmenting renewable energy production and resource generation. Electricity production experienced a remarkable increase from 38,056.8 kWh in the standalone SCPP to 1,103,435.9 kWh in the integrated SCPP + WDPP system-showing a threefold improvement. Water production also substantially increased by 60% from 139,519.1 kg to 224,513.7 kg. Furthermore, hydrogen and oxygen production showed significant increase, with hydrogen and oxygen output rising from 13,350.9 kg to 106,807.2 kg to 39,018.4 kg and 312,144.4 kg. This integrated system not only enhances energy efficiency but also contributes to resource diversification and sustainability, aligning with the global transition towards cleaner and more resilient energy infrastructures.
UT WOS:001449874300001
ER

PT C
AU Taneja, O
AF Taneja, Om
GP ASHRAE
TI Global Trends in Collaborative Infrastructure Development to Foster
   Economically, Environmentally & Socially Sustainable Built Environment
   in Regional Economies
AB In the developed or developing economies, the infrastructure systems and their effective and reliable operation is a pre-requisite for delivery of services for HVAC and building systems including associated energy, mobility, water, sanitation, and communication. It is projected that by 2030, more than $50 trillion will need to be invested in infrastructure globally to keep up with GDP, urbanization and climatic changes. Investments of this magnitude can only be delivered through collaboration between cities, regions, and international businesses and investors. Where there are gaps between public funds availability and the needs, Public-Private-Partnerships need to be evaluated and structured to dose the gaps. International collaboration common in scientific research, education and finance need to be transposed to capacity building and management of multifaceted infrastructure projects. Advanced countries can collaborate with regional country counterparts to projects execution, financing and timely delivery. Geo-collaboration enables cities in regional economies to boost their effectiveness by bringing international know-how dined, to projects facilitators.
   Buildings systems including fighting and HVAC consume nearly 40% of total energy use. To lower their carbon footprint buildings need to perform better than they had been doing, environmentally, economically and socially. Need in regional economies is for open innovations for self sustainable habitats with minimum pollution levels, optimized energy supplies, adequate security, scalable and adaptable to different situations. A well coordinated collaborative approach is favored to benefit from nexus between smart buildings, HVAC systems, IAQ environment, power and water infrastructure. Them are already collaborative activities, such as regional satellites, regional countries collaboration, National League of Cities, C40 Cities, 100 Resilient Cities, Future-Cities-Collaborative for shared benefits. In the future, the combination of power, water and communications infrastructure with real time data analytics and potential use of Artificial Intelligence will bring us high performance cities and buildings that can also adopt to global weather changes and emergencies.
   This paper presents a conceptual framework for development of robust, and resilient infrastructure to suit the needs of regional economies along with fostering skills and job creation. A new approach of using open innovation with a geo-collaborative vision, knowledge, skills, experience and strategies for effective and sustainable delivery of services, goods and policies is discussed. Technologies need to be adapted to serve local needs commensurate with global experiences, to ensure that the right technologies and applications are employed in the right environments, tailored to the specific cultural social and economic characteristics of the individual city.
UT WOS:000460215500014
ER

PT J
AU Said, RB
   Mohtar, RH
   Moussa, R
AF Said, Rania Bou
   Mohtar, Rabi H.
   Moussa, Roger
TI Water demand and surface water supply dynamics in the changing climate
   of semi-arid basins
DE Climate change; Hydrological processes; Ungauged basin; Semi-arid
   region; Quantitative hydrological projections
ID IMPACT; MODEL; SENSITIVITY; RESOURCES; RUNOFF
AB Climate change is expected to increase vulnerability in the agricultural sector by increasing crop demand for water, limiting water supply, and adding pressure on freshwater resources. In developing countries, limited hydrological data and research make it difficult to quantify changes in surface water flow (Q) and Potential Evapotranspiration (PET), making effective water resource management challenging. This paper supports stakeholders in agricultural water management by examining short- and long-term effects of climate change, in the Beqaa Valley of Lebanon, an ungauged, semi-arid sub-basin (9 km(2)). The paper projects the impact of climate change on PET (linked to crop water requirements) and Q (linked to water supply), under Shared Socioeconomic Pathways (SSP) SSP1 "Sustainability Road" and SSP3 "Regional Rivalry Road" during 2020-2100. PET was calculated using the Hargreaves method, and Q was calculated using the Modele du Genie Rural a 2 parametres Mensuel (GR2M) lumped model. Short term results show insignificant change of PET by 2041; however, Q is expected to drop by 38-52 % by 2041. Similar patterns were observed in the long term, thus while the increase in water demand is nominal, the decline in water supply poses a serious concern. To address this challenge, the paper uses sensitivity analysis to provide quantitative hydrological projections aimed at supporting evidence-based decision-making, and identify physical parameters and anthropogenic drivers that impact surface-water flow. These insights will help farmers, policymakers, and water user associations foster inclusive dialogue, develop data-informed policies, and implement sustainable watershed management strategies. (c) 2026 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd.
UT WOS:001838741800001
ER

PT J
AU Abdelsamie, MM
   Khataba, MZ
   Ali, MIH
AF Abdelsamie, Mostafa M.
   Khataba, Mohamed Z.
   Ali, Mohamed I. Hassan
TI Hybrid spectrum-splitting photovoltaic-thermal system with multi-stage
   membrane distillation for efficient energy-water nexus solutions
DE Solar membrane distillation; Concentrating photovoltaic/thermal; Direct
   contact membrane distillation; Spectral beam splitting; Waste heat
   recovery
ID DESALINATION
AB Conventional membrane distillation (MD) systems suffer from high specific energy consumption and poor utilization of the solar spectrum. This study proposes an integrated spectrum beam-splitting concentrated photovoltaic/thermal-multi-stage membrane distillation (SBS-CPVT/MSMD) system with dual-channel MSMD architecture. A hybrid optical strategy splits the incident solar spectrum at the CPV receiver. The non-utilized thermal waveband is then routed to a multi-stage direct-contact MD (DCMD) module. This configuration enables high-temperature PV operation and staged desalination concurrently from the same solar spectrum. A fully coupled three-dimensional CFD model of the SBS-CPVT/MSMD system is developed and validated against experimental data. The model is then used to optimize channel geometry and flow conditions over concentration ratios of CR = 5-50 and Reynolds numbers of Re = 30-280. Results show that the dual-channel MSMD configuration enhances PV thermal management, delivering electrical outputs up to 800.8 We with reduced temperature non-uniformity. Under higher concentration ratios, the system produces up to 2.22 kg/h of freshwater. Multi-objective optimization identifies geometries that balance power and water production, achieving 778 We and an average freshwater flux of 8.88 kg/m2 & sdot;h at CR = 50. These findings demonstrate the SBS-CPVT/MSMD concept as a high-performance, dual-purpose solar technology that simultaneously enhances power generation and desalination.
UT WOS:001727758000001
ER

PT J
AU Sinha, P
   Ghosh, S
AF Sinha, Parikhit
   Ghosh, Sujoy
TI Resource-efficient manufacturing enables PV supply chain diversity: An
   industry perspective and case study of CdTe PV manufacturing
AB A relentless focus on cost and scale has put the photovoltaics (PV) industry in a leading role in the global energy transition, with tens of terawatts of PV forecast for deployment by mid-century [1]. Sustainable development concerns have shifted from whether the technology is well-suited for large-scale decarbonization to considering whether there are resilient supply chains to support rapid scaling [2]. Resilient supply chains require diversity to reduce bottlenecks that could limit supply, as evidenced by recent learnings from the COVID-19 pandemic and war in Ukraine. So how can the PV supply chain be diversified? There are many factors that contribute to siting of manufacturing facilities such as product demand and competitiveness, cost of capital, trained labor force, government incentives, etc. In addition to these, adequate infrastructure is needed, including access to reliable electricity and water supply. Community acceptance is also needed to assure license to operate. Resource-efficient manufacturing can help enable PV supply chain diversity by reducing infrastructure demands and improving community support. In other words, manufacturing with low environmental impacts is not just a virtuous end-in-itself but can have business value in allowing manufacturing to localize while minimizing resource constraints. This article offers an industry perspective on these issues, while examining a case study of resource-efficient manufacturing as a possible template for future developments.
UT WOS:001170562600001
ER

PT J
AU Stäger, DV
   Araújo, NAM
   Herrmann, HJ
AF Staeger, D. V.
   Araujo, N. A. M.
   Herrmann, H. J.
TI Usage leading to an abrupt collapse of connectivity
ID SELF-ORGANIZED CRITICALITY; CUMULATIVE DAMAGE; MODELS; NETWORKS;
   AVALANCHES; BREAKDOWN; SANDPILE; INTERNET; FAILURE; ATTACK
AB Network infrastructures are essential for the distribution of resources such as electricity and water. Typical strategies to assess their resilience focus on the impact of a sequence of random or targeted failures of network nodes or links. Here we consider a more realistic scenario, where elements fail based on their usage. We propose a dynamic model of transport based on the Bak-Tang-Wiesenfeld sandpile model where links fail after they have transported more than an amount mu (threshold) of the resource and we investigate it on the square lattice. As we deal with a new model, we provide insight on its fundamental behavior and dependence on parameters. We observe that, for low values of the threshold due to a positive feedback of link failure, an avalanche develops that leads to an abrupt collapse of the lattice. By contrast, for high thresholds the lattice breaks down in an uncorrelated fashion. We determine the critical threshold mu* separating these two regimes and show how it depends on the toppling threshold of the nodes and the mass increment added stepwise to the system. We find that the time of major disconnection is well described with a linear dependence on mu. Furthermore, we propose a lower bound for mu* by measuring the strength of the dynamics leading to abrupt collapses.
UT WOS:000344100800003
ER

PT C
AU Darwish, MA
   Al Hawaj, O
AF Darwish, MA
   Al Hawaj, O
BE Smedley, KM
TI Cogeneration power and desalted water utilizing peak power gas turbines
DE reverse osmosis; multi stage flash desalting; reverse osmosis desalting;
   power consumption; combined cycle
AB Kuwait depends primarily on cogeneration power desalting plants CPDP for the production of power and desalted water. Presently only multi stage flash MSF desalting system are used to desalt seawater. These MSF units are combined with steam turbines and are supplied with steam extracted from turbines. The CPDP have gas turbines GT that are used only at peak load; and used only for few hours in July, and August. This paper presents new schemes to operate these GT all year around, except at peak load periods., to operate reverse osmosis RO desalting system. The RO system consumes about 1/4 of the energy consumed by MSF system. Two LM6000 GT of 42 MW nominal power are suggested to be added to the Sabiya plant as peak load engines. These two units can produce 65.5 million imperial gallons per day MIGD, when operate as simple gas cycle. Addition of heat recovery steam generator HRSG can produce 52 kg/s of moderate pressure steam. This steam can operate MSF unit to produce additional 9.8 MIGD. If high pressure HRSG are used, an additional steam turbine of 45 MW capacity can be added to the two GT to form combined gas/steam CGST cycle plant. Then, the total power output would be 129 MW and can produce 100 MIGD. This improves the utilizability factor of the plant and reduce the cost of power and water.
UT WOS:000186471800045
ER

PT J
AU Guo, X
   Zhang, ZY
   Zhang, HC
AF Guo, Xu
   Zhang, Zhaoyang
   Zhang, Houcheng
TI Synergistic electricity and freshwater cogeneration by integrating
   high-temperature proton exchange membrane fuel cells with
   humidifier-dehumidifiers
DE High-temperature proton exchange membrane; fuel cell;
   Humidifier-dehumidifier desalination unit; Waste heat recovery; Seawater
   desalination; Local sensitivity analysis
ID HYBRID SYSTEM; PERFORMANCE; POWER; DESIGN; ENERGY; SOLAR; WIND; HEAT
AB Coastal and island regions face chronic freshwater shortages and fragile power supply. Integrating high-temperature proton exchange membrane fuel cells (HT-PEMFCs) with humidifier-dehumidifiers (HDHs) can address both needs, yet system-level performance remains insufficiently quantified. This work develops a coupled system-level model that captures key thermodynamic-electrochemical irreversibilities to predict the performance of an HT-PEMFC/HDH hybrid system, and the constituent subsystem models are validated against published data. Numerical results show that, at an operating temperature of 435 K, the hybrid system attains a maximum power density of 5.09 kW m-2 and energy and exergy efficiencies of 24.53% and 26.06%, representing gains of 0.93% and 0.95% over a stand-alone HT-PEMFC. Parametric studies identify operating current density, membrane relative humidity, and phosphoric acid doping level as effective levers for performance enhancement, whereas larger humidifier area, thicker membranes, and higher HDH humidity impede it. Moreover, Local sensitivity analysis ranks membrane thickness as the dominant driver, followed by doping level and membrane humidity, with humidifier area exerting the weakest influence. The results provide quantitative guidance for the design and operation of high-efficiency HT-PEMFC/HDH cogeneration systems tailored to water-and power-constrained coastal and island applications.
UT WOS:001686694000001
ER

PT J
AU Darwish, MA
   Abdulrahim, HK
   Hassan, AS
   Mabrouk, AA
   Sharif, AO
AF Darwish, M. A.
   Abdulrahim, H. K.
   Hassan, A. S.
   Mabrouk, A. A.
   Sharif, A. O.
TI The forward osmosis and desalination
DE Forward osmosis; Reverse osmosis; Once-through MSF; Concentration
   polarization; Draw solution
ID AMMONIA-CARBON DIOXIDE; THERMAL DESALINATION; SEA-WATER; MEMBRANES;
   DRAW; SEAWATER; LAYER; FO
AB Forward osmosis (FO) has emerged as a method for desalting saline water and power production. It utilizes a chemical potential difference, or a salinity gradient to permeate fresh water through membranes. This paper investigates the feasibility of using the FO process for seawater (SW) desalination in terms of consumed energy, capital costs, water recovery, operation & maintenance, water quality, and the final product water cost. The study covers FO by itself, and when combines with other desalting systems such as reverse osmosis, multi stage flash (MSF), and multi effect distillation as pretreatment method. This paper reviews first the principles of fluid and solutes flow in the FO membranes, concentration polarization, the difference between the FO, pressure retarded osmosis processes, draw solutions, and the solutes involved in these draw solutions. Then, the main characteristics of the FO membranes and their commercial availability are presented. Previous experimental work and a commercial plant using FO for desalination are also given. The use of FO as pretreatment for other desalting methods is presented in light of two proposed research projects. The first research project proposes utilizing FO as pretreatment for processing treated wastewater and SW in one system. The second project utilizes FO as pretreatment for a once-through MSF desalting method. The analysis proved energy reduction in the energy consumption of both desalting systems by more than 50 and 18%, respectively.
UT WOS:000367846000001
ER

PT J
AU Holgado, BM
   Muriel, B
   Bonilla, ML
   Ramirez, SB
   Castro, PBGD
AF Holgado, Beatriz Muriel
   Muriel, Beatriz
   Bonilla, Marta Lucas
   Ramirez, Sergio Barroso
   Castro, Pablo Bustos Garcia de
TI Iterative Optimization of a Social Inmotics-Based Method in Order to
   Make Buildings Smart and Resilient
DE smart and resilient buildings; building energy consumption; Indoor
   Environmental Quality; monitoring; social inmotics; key performance
   indicators
ID ENERGY-CONSUMPTION; SYSTEM; ARCHITECTURE; BEHAVIOR; MODEL
AB The current situation of inefficiency in buildings operation, inadequate occupants' habits and the low Indoor Environmental Quality suggests a methodology that addresses the implementation of social inmotics. The method allows the continuous optimization of the building performance and occupants' awareness through an iterative process. In each iteration the experts propose strategies that will be evaluated in the next cycle through key performance indicators. This method develops an open source, scalable, low-cost cyber-physical system using real time data. The results have been obtained from successive approaches, implementation of protocols and empirical validation in different scenarios until reaching the version of the system installed in a public university building, the School of Technology (University of Extremadura, Spain). By testing this methodology, social inmotics through the use of disruptive technologies is proving to find solutions that increase energy savings and improve Indoor Environmental Quality in adaptive and resilient buildings. Some of the results show that electricity and water consumption with respect to occupancy density have decreased, important and unexpected consumption peaks as the data servers, the cafeteria, or breakdowns have been detected, and users' participation improve the initial situation. Furthermore, this paper provides key performance indicators for this building typology.
UT WOS:000795054200003
ER

PT J
AU Wu, GH
   Shi, Z
   Xie, XY
   Fu, X
   Zeng, K
AF Wu, Guohai
   Shi, Zhou
   Xie, Xiongyao
   Fu, Xiao
   Zeng, Kun
TI Mechanical response and damage evolution of CT-jointed segmental linings
   in undersea shield tunnels under multi-source construction loads
DE Shield tunnel; Socket-type (CT) joint; Segmental lining;
   Multi-dimensional numerical simulation; Damage mechanism
AB Shield tunneling in composite strata is frequently accompanied by shield deflection and eccentric jack thrust, which can trigger severe segment dislocation and structural damage. Socket-type (CT) joints have been increasingly adopted for their superior waterproof performance; however, their geometric discontinuity induces complex stress concentrations during construction. This study takes a nuclear power water conveyance tunnel as the engineering background to establish a multi-source, multi-dimensional numerical simulation that incorporates the shield shell, segments, and CT connectors. The influences of shield shell circumferential deflection and eccentric jack thrust are explicitly incorporated. The reliability of the model is validated through qualitative comparison with available full-scale experimental observations. The results reveal that while CT joints effectively restrain segment dislocation, pronounced stress concentrations develop at right-angle transitions and thin-rib regions, with maximum joint stresses exceeding 685 MPa in segments directly adjacent to the jacks. Plastic strain accumulates progressively along the shield tail, characterized by tensile-dominated failure in evennumbered rings and shear-dominated failure in odd-numbered rings. Furthermore, circumferential deflection intensifies damage at the T-shaped contact interfaces, while eccentric jack thrust induces a characteristic horizontal elliptical deformation. The findings of this study deepen the understanding of the mechanical behavior of CT-jointed linings and provide critical technical references for joint design optimization and construction control in water conveyance and undersea shield tunnel projects.
UT WOS:001799354900001
ER

PT C
AU Paudel, SB
   Michna, GJ
AF Paudel, Sagar Babu
   Michna, Gregory J.
GP ASME
TI START-UP AND TRANSIENT BEHAVIOR OF AN OSCILLATING HEAT PIPE
AB Microelectronics devices require relatively low and uniform temperatures for maximum reliability and oscillating heat pipes (OHPs) may prove to be extremely well suited to this application. However, in some operating conditions, temperature overshoot has been observed at startup, which could lead to premature electronics failure. In this paper, the effect of various OHP operating parameters such as working fluid (deionized water, methanol, and acetone), inclination angle (vertical, 45, and horizontal), fill ratio (50%, 60%, 70%, and 80%), and heat, load (10W, 20W, and 30W) on start-up performance of a 20-turn OHP were investigated. This information could be used by a designer to optimize an OHP system to reduce the risk of start-up evaporator temperature overshoot before the system begins cooling. All working fluids performed best at high power. Water, for most cases, did not exhibit overshoot, but it performed well only in the vertical orientation with high fill ratios. However, methanol and acetone performed best at low fill ratios irrespective of inclination angle. Low power (10 W) was not sufficient to initiate oscillations when the fill ratio was high for these fluids, and overshoot occurred for both methanol and acetone at different conditions. Methanol, in general, did not overshoot either at low power and low fill ratio or high power and high fill ratio. However, acetone showed overshoot only at high heat load regardless of fill ratio and inclination angle. Start up behavior was somewhat unpredictable, with repeated test runs showing different results despite identical operating parameters.
UT WOS:000374197900096
ER

PT J
AU Ahmed, EEE
   Demirci, A
AF Ahmed, Eihab E. E.
   Demirci, Alpaslan
TI Multi-stage and multi-objective optimization for optimal sizing of
   stand-alone photovoltaic water pumping systems
DE Photovoltaic water pumping system; Multi-objective optimization; Loss of
   load probability; Life cycle cost; Particle swarm optimization
ID LEAD-ACID; PARAMETER EXTRACTION; SENSITIVITY-ANALYSIS; ENERGY-RESOURCES;
   SOLAR-ENERGY; PERFORMANCE; IRRIGATION; STORAGE; ELECTRIFICATION;
   FEASIBILITY
AB Supplying electrical energy and drinking water in developing countries, especially in rural areas, is a challenging issue. The main reasons for this may include faulty grid lines, inability to fulfill the increasing demand, and inadequate coverage of the national transmission lines due to the distance between the remote villages. Photovoltaic water pumping systems (PVPS) can be the solution to the aforementioned problems. However, the high costs of PVPS and the unpredictability of solar radiation complicate the design of PVPS. This study was conducted considering the drinking water needs of a village located near Khartoum, Sudan. Multi-objective optimization (MOO) in the developed techno-economic model was carried out considering the reliability in terms of loss of load probability (LLP) and life cycle cost (LCC). The PVPS has been optimally sized considering the tilt angle, installed and unused PV power, water tank volume, and excess water. The particle swarm optimization (PSO) algorithm and the new python package, pvpumpingsystem, were combined to simulate the proposed PVPS model. Sensitivity analysis was conducted considering system performance, PV capacity, and tank volume. The optimal sizing results of the proposed model would be satisfactory and feasible, especially in developing countries with infrastructure and energy problems.(c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000799959000009
ER

PT J
AU Ramalingam, K
   Aziz, MSA
   Wong, YJ
   Abdullah, MZ
   Govindasamy, M
AF Ramalingam, Krishnamoorthy
   Aziz, Mohd Sharizal Abdul
   Wong, Yong Jie
   Abdullah, Mohd Zulkifly
   Govindasamy, Mohan
TI Sustainable evaluation of neem-emulsified waste-derived biofuel using
   interpretable machine learning
DE Sustainable energy; Emulsified biofuel; Neem oil composite; SHAP
   interpretability; Ensemble learning; Circular economy
ID BIODIESEL PRODUCTION; PERFORMANCE; COMBUSTION
AB In response to the dual challenges of sustainable energy demand and intelligent system modeling, this study integrates interpretable machine learning with experimental evaluation of neem-extract-emulsified Composite Oil (CO) as a renewable diesel substitute. A composite blend (20% neem oil, 80% waste cooking oil, v/v) was emulsified with neem extract at three water concentrations (5%, 10%, 15%). The 10% water-emulsified fuel (CO10W) achieved near-diesel performance, with brake thermal efficiency only 2.75% lower and brake specific energy consumption 4.3% higher than diesel. Relative to neat CO (CO100), CO10W improved efficiency by 8.7% and reduced energy consumption by 17.7%, attributed to optimized water content enabling micro explosions and enhanced atomization. Emission analysis showed CO10W reduced HC, CO, and smoke by up to 35.9%, 37.1%, and 18.2% respectively, while maintaining moderate NOx levels and slightly higher CO2 emissions due to more complete oxidation. Boosted ensemble models (XGBoost, AdaBoost, GBM) trained on 165 experimental data points confirmed predictive reliability, with Gradient Boosting achieving the highest accuracy (R2 = 0.87-0.99) and SHAP interpretation identifying brake power, water concentration, and engine load as key predictors. The combined experimental-computational framework demonstrates that CO10W is both chemically viable and computationally validated, offering a scalable pathway for cleaner combustion, reduced fossil fuel dependence, and alignment with circular economy and SDG goals.
UT WOS:001707497800001
ER

PT J
AU Delucchi, MA
   Jacobson, MZ
AF Delucchi, Mark A.
   Jacobson, Mark Z.
TI Providing all global energy with wind, water, and solar power, Part II:
   Reliability, system and transmission costs, and policies
DE Wind power; Solar power; Water power
ID LIFE-CYCLE COST; OFFSHORE WIND; RENEWABLE ENERGY; SCALE; ELECTRICITY;
   INTEGRATION; ECONOMICS; STORAGE; AIR; ALTERNATIVES
AB This is Part II of two papers evaluating the feasibility of providing all energy for all purposes (electric power, transportation, and heating/cooling), everywhere in the world, from wind, water, and the sun (WWS). In Part I, we described the prominent renewable energy plans that have been proposed and discussed the characteristics of WWS energy systems, the global demand for and availability of WWS energy, quantities and areas required for WWS infrastructure, and supplies of critical materials. Here, we discuss methods of addressing the variability of WWS energy to ensure that power supply reliably matches demand (including interconnecting geographically dispersed resources, using hydroelectricity, using demand-response management, storing electric power on site, over-sizing peak generation capacity and producing hydrogen with the excess, storing electric power in vehicle batteries, and forecasting weather to project energy supplies), the economics of WWS generation and transmission, the economics of WWS use in transportation, and policy measures needed to enhance the viability of a WWS system. We find that the cost of energy in a 100% WWS will be similar to the cost today. We conclude that barriers to a 100% conversion to WWS power worldwide are primarily social and political, not technological or even economic. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000288971100015
ER

PT C
AU Musil, J
   Dolhof, V
   Dvoracek, E
AF Musil, J
   Dolhof, V
   Dvoracek, E
BE Berndt, CC
TI Repair of water turbine blades by wire electric arc spraying
AB Water turbine parts damaged by cavitation erosion (CE) and/or slurry erosion (SE) may cause excessive operational costs for plants worldwide. The damages can be reduced by choosing more resistant materials and right technology in the first-production or at repair and overhaul. Thermal spray technologies have a great potential in the field of repairing works. Thick multilayered coatings deposited by wire electric are spraying (WAS) has been developed and applied as CE and SE protection at the repair of stationary Francis turbine blades. Repair technology by WAS was performed on large eroded areas (1-3 m(2)) of preguide blades of Francis turbine: 1) local damaged depths 30-35 mm maximum were repaired by sprayed materials, 2) subsequently wire are spraying of functional coating was applied. Three types of functional coatings with total thickness 10 mm a) duplex high - Cr stainless steel with NiAl bond coat, b) graded NiAl - Cr stainless steel coatings, and c) multilayered graded NiAl - Cr stainless steel coatings were compared by means of stress measurements and structural analysis. The coating structure influences very strongly the residual stress level and adhesive-cohesive strength.
   Multilayered graded NiAl - Cr stainless steel coatings showed the best results and were sprayed on water turbine blades in 4 Czech water power station during regular cut-off repair periods. After 30 - 36 months' continuous operation, Francis turbine blades repaired by WAS technology show better behaviour in comparison with original material from the point of wear resistance, reliability, cost-effect and life-time.
UT WOS:A1996BG89J00126
ER

PT J
AU Lewis, MJ
   Angeloudis, A
   Robins, PE
   Evans, PS
   Neill, SP
AF Lewis, M. J.
   Angeloudis, A.
   Robins, P. E.
   Evans, P. S.
   Neill, S. P.
TI Influence of storm surge on tidal range energy
DE Tidal energy; Barrages; Lagoons; Storm surge; Resource; Reliability
ID WAVE CONDITIONS; SEVERN BARRAGE; CURRENT POWER; UK; VARIABILITY;
   RESOURCE; FLOOD; MODEL; OPTIMIZATION; SCHEMES
AB The regular and predictable nature of the tide makes the generation of electricity with a tidal lagoon or barrage an attractive form of renewable energy, yet storm surges affect the total water-level. Here, we present the first assessment of the potential impact of storm surges on tidal-range power. Water-level data (2000-2012) at nine UK tide gauges, where tidal-range energy is suitable for development (e.g. Bristol Channel), was used to predict power. Storm surge affected annual resource estimates -5% to +3%, due to inter-annual variability, which is lower than other sources of uncertainty (e.g. lagoon design); therefore, annual resource estimation from astronomical tides alone appears sufficient. However, instantaneous power output was often significantly affected (Normalised Root Mean Squared Error: 3%-8%, Scatter Index: 15%-41%) and so a storm surge prediction system may be required for any future electricity generation scenario that includes large amounts of tidal-range generation. The storm surge influence to tidal-range power varied with the electricity generation strategy considered (flooding tide only, ebb-only or dual; both flood and ebb), but with some spatial and temporal variability. The flood only strategy was most affected by storm surge, mostly likely because tide-surge interaction increases the chance of higher water-levels on the flooding tide. (C) 2017 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
UT WOS:000399267100003
ER

PT J
AU Babanouri, N
   Dehghani, H
AF Babanouri, Nima
   Dehghani, Hesam
TI Investigating a potential reservoir landslide and suggesting its
   treatment using limit-equilibrium and numerical methods
DE Reservoir landslide; Limit equilibrium; Numerical modeling; Reliability;
   Slope stabilization
ID ROCK SLOPE STABILITY; DAM-RESERVOIR; PROBABILISTIC ASSESSMENT
AB A reservoir landslide not only reduces the water storage capacity, but also causes extensive damages to the dam body, power/water transmission lines, roads, and other infrastructures. The Latian Dam, located 35 km north east of Tehran (Iran), is one of the cases which has encountered serious problems with instability of its rock abutments. This paper addresses the stability analysis of the right abutment of the Latian Dam using limit equilibrium and numerical methods. Geomechanical characteristics of the rock abutment were first estimated based on engineering classification of the rock mass. Different search methods were examined for locating the critical circular/non-circular slip surface in conjunction with the general limit equilibrium method. The effect of variability of rock mass properties, water table, and earthquake load on the factor of safety (FS) and probability of failure (PF) was studied. In the event of rapid drawdown in the reservoir, the limit equilibrium analysis calculated FS=1.067 and PF=21.1%, and the numerical analysis returned FS=1.01. The results of the analyses suggest that the right abutment of the Latian Dam is prone to slide and needs treatment. Investigations demonstrated that a slope reduction by 15A degrees at the upper part of the abutment would meet stability conditions even in the worst-case scenario (FS=1.297 and PF=2.07%).
UT WOS:000396056200002
ER

PT J
AU Luke, J
   Franklin, R
   Aitken, P
   Dyson, J
AF Luke, Jenny
   Franklin, Richard
   Aitken, Peter
   Dyson, Joanne
TI Safer Hospital Infrastructure Assessments for Socio-Natural Disaster - A
   Scoping Review
DE assessment tool; hospital; infrastructure; resilience
ID WORLD-HEALTH-ORGANIZATION; PREPAREDNESS; RESILIENCE; LESSONS;
   VALIDATION; EVACUATION; IRAN
AB Background: The aim of this review was to explore hospital socio-natural disaster resilience by identifying: studies assessing structural and non-structural aspects of building resilience; components required to maintain a safe and functional health facility; and if the checklists used were comprehensive and easily performed. Methods: A review systemic approach using PRISMA was taken to search the literature. The search focused on articles that discuss hospital disaster resilience. This includes assessments and checklists for facility structural and non-structural components. Results: This review identified 22 articles describing hospital assessments using checklists containing structural and non-structural elements of resilience. These studies identified assessments undertaken in ten countries, with eight occurring across Iran. A total of seven differing checklists were identified as containing aspects of structural or non-structural aspects of building resilience. The World Health Organization (WHO) has authored three checklists and four others were developed independently. The structural resilience domain includes building integrity, building materials, design standards, and previous event damages as important elements to determine resilience. Within the internal safety and resilience domains, 11 differing elements were identified as important to non-structural or internal infrastructure resilience. These included the safety of power, water, telecommunication, medical gas supply, and medical equipment resupply systems. Independent evaluation methods were reported in the majority of articles, with a small number highlighting the benefits of both self-evaluation and independent review processes. Implementation of training programs to evaluators was mentioned in three papers with the assessor's knowledge and understanding of all checklist elements being highlighted as important to the validity of the evaluation. Conclusion: The review identified the assessment of hospital resilience as important for management to determine areas of vulnerability within the hospital's infrastructure and to inform improvement strategies. Assessment criteria must be comprehensive, highlighting structural and non-structural aspects of facility infrastructure. These assessments are best done as a multi-disciplinary collective of experts, involving hospital employees in the journey. This collaborative approach provides a key educational tool for developing disaster capacity, engaging ownership of the process, and the resulting improvements. The on-going development of health facility and wider health system resilience must remain a key strategic focus of national governments and health authorities. The development of standardized procedures and guidelines must be embedded into daily practice.
UT WOS:000697780800021
ER

PT J
AU Sarjan, H
   Ameli, A
   Ghafouri, M
AF Sarjan, Hamed
   Ameli, Amir
   Ghafouri, Mohsen
TI Cyber-Security of Industrial Internet of Things in Electric Power
   Systems
DE Industrial Internet of Things; Security; Ecosystems; Reliability;
   Real-time systems; Protocols; Power generation; Computer crime; Computer
   security; Intrusion detection; Cyber-attacks; cyber-security; electric
   power systems; industrial internet of things; intrusion detection
   systems
ID SIGNATURE SCHEME; NEURAL-NETWORK; IOT; CHALLENGES; ENERGY; TECHNOLOGIES;
   ALGORITHM; PROTOCOL; THREATS
AB Electric Power Systems (EPSs) are among the most critical infrastructures of any society, since they significantly impact other infrastructures. Recently, there has been a trend toward implementing modern technologies, such as Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT), in EPSs to enhance their real-time monitoring, control, situational awareness, and intelligence. This movement, however, has exposed EPSs to various cyber intrusions that originate from the IIoT ecosystem. Statistics show that 38% of reported attacks have been against power and water infrastructure, and so far at least 91% of power utilities have experienced a cyber-attack. The cyber-security problem is even more severe for IIoT applications in EPSs due to the vulnerabilities and resource limitations of such applications. Thus, based on the above statistics, it is necessary to investigate the vulnerabilities of IIoT-based applications in EPSs, identify probable attacks and their consequences, and develop intrusion prevention and detection approaches to secure IIoT systems. On this basis, this paper first elaborates on the applications of IIoT-based systems in EPSs, and evaluates their security challenges. Afterwards, it comprehensively reviews various cyber-attacks against IIoT-assisted EPSs, with a particular focus on attack entry points and adversarial methods. Finally, efforts to prevent cyber-intrusions against IIoT systems in EPSs are explained, and different attack detection techniques are discussed.
UT WOS:000852231100001
ER

PT J
AU Wang, LX
   Li, ZW
   Nie, XD
   Liu, YJ
   Wang, H
   Li, YZ
   Li, JQ
AF Wang, Lingxia
   Li, Zhongwu
   Nie, Xiaodong
   Liu, Yaojun
   Wang, Hui
   Li, Yazhe
   Li, Jiaqi
TI Three-dimensional spatiotemporal variation of soil organic carbon and
   its influencing factors at the basin scale
DE Digital soil mapping; Random forest; Climate change; Human activities;
   3D mapping
ID DEPTH FUNCTIONS; STORAGE; PREDICTION; STOCKS; FLUX
AB The variability of soil organic carbon (SOC) extends across three dimensions. However, quantitative analyses of the factors influencing spatiotemporal variations of SOC in various soil depth is scarce. This study leverages legacy data from two soil surveys conducted in the Dongting Lake Basin during the 1980s and the 2010s, employing Random Forest models to generate three-dimensional SOC maps. Through correlation analysis and permutation importance, we identified the primary factors driving temporal and spatial changes of SOC. The results showed that in the 2010s, SOC storage up to a depth of 1 m in the Dongting Lake Basin was approximately 2.95 Pg, increasing at an average rate of 0.0047 Pg C per year since the 1980s. Regions with higher average SOC contents were predominantly found in the western, southern, and eastern parts of the basin, despite significant losses over the 30-year period. In contrast, the central and northern areas, which initially had lower SOC contents in the 1980s, exhibited increases by the 2010s. Soil depth was the most influential predictor of SOC patterns in both the 1980s and 2010s. Meanwhile, relief and organism factors were primarily responsible for spatial variations in SOC, with the influence of organism factors diminishing by the 2010s. The temporal variations of SOC were chiefly attributed to changes in soil conservation practices, extreme precipitation events, and grain production. Consequently, it is imperative to prioritize ecological restoration and conservation tillage practices to mitigate the impacts of extreme weather conditions and safeguard food security. (c) 2024 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY- NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
UT WOS:001332113600001
ER

PT J
AU Zhang, YJ
   Zhang, CL
   Wang, XS
   Li, WP
   Bu, FR
   Zheng, QG
   Zhao, JQ
   Cui, XR
   Xia, ZS
   Zhang, XY
   Zuo, XF
AF Zhang, Yajing
   Zhang, Chunlai
   Wang, Xuesong
   Li, Wenping
   Bu, Fanrui
   Zheng, Qingguo
   Zhao, Jiaqi
   Cui, Xinran
   Xia, Zhishan
   Zhang, Xiaoyu
   Zuo, Xiaofeng
TI Assessment of the aeolian transport characteristics and protection
   status of sand-blocking and sand-fixing belts in the Hexi Corridor,
   northwest China
DE Hexi corridor; Sand-blocking and sand-fixing belts; Sand transport
   amount; Sand accumulation
ID OASIS-DESERT ECOTONE; WIND EROSION; ARID REGION; NEBKHAS; FIELD;
   VEGETATION; AREA; DUNE; DESERTIFICATION; RESTORATION
AB Sand-blocking and sand-fixing belts, located in desert-oasis ecotones, are vital ecological barriers for maintaining oasis stability and mitigating wind-blown sand hazards in arid regions. The existing belts consist of a shrub zone and tree shelterbelt at the oasis margins. In this study, we focused on the Hexi Corridor and conducted simultaneous field measurements of near-surface wind speed and sand flow along five representative transects across these belts. Based on these observations, we developed a predictive equation for sand transport within the belts. We found that the reduction in near-surface wind speed within the shrub zone and oasis interior primarily depended on the lateral cover of shrubs and structure of the shelterbelt. The shrub zone was dominated by aeolian deposition, with significant variations in sand transport among transects caused by differences in belt structure and integrity, leading to variable sand-blocking and sand-fixing efficiencies. When the shrub zone failed to weaken the aeolian activity, the overall protective efficiency dropped below 40%, resulting in sand deposition along the edges of the shelterbelts between the shrub zone and the oasis farmland. The accumulation advanced by nearly 1 m toward the oasis, posing a direct threat to its ecological security. Controlling mobile dunes, restoring shrub zones, and optimizing shelterbelt structures are essential for enhancing the functionality of sand-blocking and sand-fixing belts. (c) 2025 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation and China Water and Power Press. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/ 4.0/).
UT WOS:001698884300001
ER

PT J
AU Gabriel, KJ
   Linke, P
   Jiménez-Gutiérrez, A
   Martínez, DY
   Noureldin, M
   El-Halwagi, MM
AF Gabriel, Kerron J.
   Linke, Patrick
   Jimenez-Gutierrez, Arturo
   Yered Martinez, Diana
   Noureldin, Mohamed
   El-Halwagi, Mahmoud M.
TI Targeting of the Water-Energy Nexus in Gas-to-Liquid Processes: A
   Comparison of Syngas Technologies
ID TROPSCH; HYDROCRACKING; SELECTIVITY; CATALYSTS; DIESEL; MODEL; GTL
AB The abundant supply of natural gas and the increasing reserves due to substantial shale gas discoveries are spurring much interest in gas-to-liquid (GTL) technologies that can provide various liquid transportation fuels. A primary GTL route involves the conversion of natural/shale gas to syngas which is subsequently converted to liquid fuels using the Fischer Tropsch (FT) chemistry. The FT process is both energy and water intensive and has resulted in substantial efforts aimed at improving the design and operation of large-scale GTL facilities within the context of sustainability. Although the process technologies have been proven commercially, little is known about the heuristics involved in the selection, design, and operation of certain core process units. In specific, the choice of syngas production technology has been heavily debated based on various factors such as cost, hydrogen-to-carbon monoxide ratio, compatibility with the rest of the process through mass and energy integration, environmental impact, safety, reliability, and controllability. Despite the variety of these detailed issues, there exist macroscopic insights that can aid the engineer and or investor in the selection process. This work aims to highlight some of these insights as they pertain to heat and electrical energy as well as water and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Process design and simulation was done for three GTL processes using commercially demonstrated syngas technologies. Heat and mass integration techniques were used to benchmark the process and identify potential for reduced GHG footprint as well as power and water generation.
UT WOS:000335369300022
ER

PT J
AU Liu, HH
   Hörmann, G
   Qi, BY
   Yue, QX
AF Liu, Honghu
   Hoermann, Georg
   Qi, Bingyu
   Yue, Qiuxing
TI Using high-resolution aerial images to study gully development at the
   regional scale in southern China
DE Digital elevation model; Slope gradient; Exposed lands; Upstream
   contributing area
ID RETREAT RATES; EROSION; AREAS; SOIL; 3D
AB There are 239,100 gullies in southern China, which cause the degradation of ecological system. However, studies on gully development at the regional scale is relatively lack. The purpose of this study is to analyze the regional gully dynamics and explore how land use and topographic factors affect gully development. Input data consists of land use maps derived from high-resolution images from 2004 to 2014, and topography maps from a digital elevation model with a pixel size of 8 m x 8 m in two 25-km(2) study sites of Anxi (AX) and Xingning county (XN). The following results were obtained: (1) AX gullies decreased from 2006 to 2014 while XN first increased from 2004 to 2009, and then decreased from 2009 to 2014. Both AX and XN gully area in percentage of the total area ranged from 1% to 3%, which was higher than the average 0.25% of the whole southern China by the artificial survey in 2005. (2) Most of AX and XN gullies occurred along the ridgeline and had the close relationships with the upstream contributing area and slope gradient. (3) New gullies developed on the exposed land and forestland. The lost gullies were converted into forestland and grassland. In fact, most of these gullies were only covered by vegetation, not real disappearance. These results proved that gully decreased, but construction of roads and buildings intensified gully development. Consequently, these findings reveal that vegetation protection and ecological restoration should be adopted in southern China. (c) 2020 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation and China Water and Power Press. Production and Hosting by Elsevier B.V. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
UT WOS:000540327800008
ER

PT J
AU Wang, M
   Rong, L
   Li, YB
   Huang, JC
   Jiao, YM
   Wei, XY
AF Wang, Ming
   Rong, Li
   Li, Yanbo
   Huang, Jiangcheng
   Jiao, Yuanmei
   Wei, Xiaoyan
TI Drainage of paddy terraces impacts structures and soil properties in the
   globally important agricultural heritage of Hani Paddy Terraces, China
DE Hani paddy terraces; Terraces marginalization; Terrace structure
   degradation; Soil productivity; Water holding capacity
ID LAND-USE CHANGE; RICE TERRACES; BENCH TERRACES; EROSION; ABANDONMENT;
   FIELDS; DISTRIBUTIONS; PRODUCTIVITY; EVOLUTION; FAILURE
AB Marginalization and abandonment of paddy terraces are widespread, but their effects on the sustain-ability of subsequent agricultural production are still unknown. Hani Paddy Terraces, included in Globally Important Agriculture Heritage Systems, are threatened by paddy fields drainage. Here, changes in terrace structure, the productivity of topsoil (0-20 cm), and soil water holding capacity at 0-70 cm depth were determined in a case study of Hani Paddy Terraces in Amengkong River Basin in Yuanyang County in Southwestern China, which had been converted into dryland terraces for 2-14 years. Our results showed that: (1) The degree of terrace structures degradation exhibited a U-shaped curve with increasing time since draining, with those drained for 5-9 years having the best structure; (2) Soil productivity index decreased first and then increased with time after conversion; (3) Maximum water holding capacity at 0-70 cm soil depth dramatically decreased after conversion and such trend became increasingly obvious with increasing time since conversion. Our study revealed that drainage of paddy terraces along with associated changes in crop and field management led to an increase in soil pro-ductivity, but degradation of terrace structures and a decrease in water holding capacity will inhibit restoration to paddy terraces. These findings enhance the understanding of the biophysical changes due to marginalization in paddy terraces. (c) 2023 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY -NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
UT WOS:001225703900001
ER

PT J
AU Luís, AD
   Cabral, P
AF Luis, Antonio dos Anjos
   Cabral, Pedro
TI Small dams/reservoirs site location analysis in a semi-arid region of
   Mozambique
DE Water scarcity; Multi-criteria evaluation; Geographic information
   systems; Remote sensing; Mozambique
ID MULTICRITERIA DECISION-ANALYSIS; WATER-RESOURCES MANAGEMENT; ANALYTIC
   HIERARCHY PROCESS; CLIMATE-CHANGE; GIS; SELECTION; AHP; SUITABILITY;
   PROVINCE; RIVER
AB The water crisis is one of the biggest human problems in developing countries, especially in semi-arid regions where it can form an obstacle to irrigation and cultivation, cattle raising and people's survival. The construction of small dams/reservoirs are a possible solution to remediate this problem. These infrastructures must be located in suitable areas to be successful. This study aimed to find the most suitable locations for small dams/reservoirs in the Tete province region, Mozambique, which has a pronounced water deficit. A Geographical Information System (GIS) based approach was used to implement a multicriteria evaluation (MCE) analysis through an Analytic Hierarchical Process (AHP), which included local experts' consultation. Three main categories of suitability were identified: "Not suitable" (15% of total area), "Modestly suitable" (78%), and "Suitable" (7%). We found that 35 of the 38 (92%) abandoned small dams/reservoirs were in areas classified as "Modestly suitable" confirming the robustness of our model. We also found that most of the dams/reservoirs currently operating (78%) and planned (73%) are in modestly suitable areas.
   This finding suggests that the decision to construct dams/reservoirs may not have considered the most critical suitability factors identified in this study. More data and/or additional criteria are required for the full understanding of finding out why so many dams/reservoirs failed before building new ones to address the population's water needs in the region. (C) 2021 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water & Power Press. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd.
UT WOS:000659949800007
ER

PT C
AU Canedo, D
   Fonseca, P
   Georgieva, P
   Neves, AJR
AF Canedo, Daniel
   Fonseca, Pedro
   Georgieva, Petia
   Neves, Antonio J. R.
BE Pinho, AJ
   Georgieva, P
   Teixeira, LF
   Sanchez, JA
TI An Innovative Vision System for Floor-Cleaning Robots Based on YOLOv5
DE Computer vision; Object detection; Deep learning; Floor-cleaning robots
AB The implementation of a robust vision system in floor-cleaning robots enables them to optimize their navigation and analysing the surrounding floor, leading to a reduction on power, water and chemical products' consumption. In this paper, we propose a novel pipeline of a vision system to be integrated into floor-cleaning robots. This vision system was built upon the YOLOv5 framework, and its role is to detect dirty spots on the floor. The vision system is fed by two cameras: one on the front and the other on the back of the floor-cleaning robot. The goal of the front camera is to save energy and resources of the floor-cleaning robot, controlling its speed and how much water and detergent is spent according to the detected dirt. The goal of the back camera is to act as evaluation and aid the navigation node, since it helps the floor-cleaning robot to understand if the cleaning was effective and if it needs to go back later for a second sweep. A self-calibration algorithm was implemented on both cameras to stabilize image intensity and improve the robustness of the vision system. A YOLOv5 model was trained with carefully prepared training data. A new dataset was obtained in an automotive factory using the floor-cleaning robot. A hybrid training dataset was used, consisting on the Automation and Control Institute dataset (ACIN), the automotive factory dataset, and a synthetic dataset. Data augmentation was applied to increase the dataset and to balance the classes. Finally, our vision system attained a mean average precision (mAP) of 0.7 on the testing set.
UT WOS:000876727600030
ER

PT J
AU Boussadia-Omari, L
   Ouillon, S
   Hirche, A
   Salamani, M
   Guettouche, MS
   Ihaddaden, A
   Nedjraoui, D
AF Boussadia-Omari, Lynda
   Ouillon, Sylvain
   Hirche, Aziz
   Salamani, Mustapha
   Guettouche, Mohamed Said
   Ihaddaden, Akli
   Nedjraoui, Dalila
TI Contribution of phytoecological data to spatialize soil erosion:
   Application of the RUSLE model in the Algerian atlas
DE Water erosion; Vulnerability; Remote sensing; Land-use mapping; Aridity;
   Soil protection; Algerian atlas
ID ROCK FRAGMENT COVER; SEDIMENT YIELD; WATER EROSION; LS-FACTOR; GIS;
   RUNOFF; PREDICTION; VEGETATION; SCALES; BASIN
AB Among the models used to assess water erosion, the RUSLE model is commonly used. Policy makers can act on cover (C-factor) and conservation practice (P-factor) to reduce erosion, with less costly action on soil surface characteristics. However, the widespread use of vegetation indices such as NDVI does not allow for a proper assessment of the C-factor in drylands where stones, crusted surfaces and litter strongly influence soil protection. Two sub-factors of C, canopy cover (CC) and soil cover (SC), can be assessed from phytoecological measurements that include gravel-pebbles cover, physical mulch, annual and perennial vegetation. This paper introduces a method to calculate the C-factor from phytoecological data and, in combination with remote sensing and a geographic information system (GIS), to map it over large areas. A supervised classification, based on field phytoecological data, is applied to radiometric data from Landsat-8/OLI satellite images. Then, a C-factor value, whose SC and CC subfactors are directly derived from the phytoecological measurements, is assigned to each land cover unit. This method and RUSLE are implemented on a pilot region of 3828 km(2) of the Saharan Atlas, composed of rangelands and steppe formations, and intended to become an observatory. The protective effect against erosion by gravel-pebbles (50%) is more than twice that of vegetation (23%). The C-factor derived from NDVI (0.67) is higher and more evenly distributed than that combining these two contributions (0.37 on average). Finally, priorities are proposed to decision-makers by crossing the synthetic map of erosion sensitivity and a decision matrix of management priorities. (C) 2021 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water & Power Press. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd.
UT WOS:000706193900003
ER

PT J
AU Jänichen, J
   Ziemer, J
   Wolsza, M
   Klöpper, D
   Weltmann, S
   Wicker, C
   Last, K
   Schmullius, C
   Dubois, C
AF Jaenichen, Jannik
   Ziemer, Jonas
   Wolsza, Marco
   Kloepper, Daniel
   Weltmann, Sebastian
   Wicker, Carolin
   Last, Katja
   Schmullius, Christiane
   Dubois, Clemence
TI Towards Operational Dam Monitoring with PS-InSAR and Electronic Corner
   Reflectors
DE DInSAR; PSI; time series analysis; dam monitoring; monitoring strategy;
   electronic corner reflectors (ECR C-Band); Sentinel-1
ID PERMANENT SCATTERERS; SAR
AB Dams are crucial for ensuring water and electricity supply, while also providing significant flood protection. Regular monitoring of dam deformations is of vital socio-economic and ecological significance. In Germany, dams must be constructed and operated according to generally accepted rules of engineering. The safety concept for dams based on these rules relies on structural safety, professional operation and maintenance, safety monitoring, and precautionary measures. Rather time-consuming in situ techniques have been employed for these measurements, which permit monitoring deformations with either high spatial or temporal resolution, but not both. As a means of measuring large-scale deformations in the millimeter range, the Differential Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar (DInSAR) technique of Persistent Scatterer Interferometry (PSI) is already being applied in various fields. However, when considering the operational monitoring of dams using PSI, specific characteristics need to be considered. For example, the geographical location of the dam in space, as well as its shape, size, and land cover. All these factors can affect the visibility of the structure for the use with PSI and, in certain cases, limit the applicability of SAR data. The visibility of dams for PSI monitoring is often limited, particularly in cases where observation is typically not feasible due to factors such as geographical and structural characteristics. While corner reflectors can improve visibility, their large size often makes them unsuitable for dam infrastructure and may raise concerns with heritage protection for listed dams. Addressing these challenges, electronic corner reflectors (ECRs) offer an effective alternative due to their small and compact size. In this study, we analyzed the strategic placement of ECRs on dam structures. We developed a new CR Index, which identifies areas where PSI alone is insufficient due to unfavorable geometric or land use conditions. This index categorizes visibility potential into three classes, presented in a 'traffic light' map, and is instrumental in selecting optimal installation sites. We furthermore investigated the signal stability of ECRs over an extended observation period, considering the Amplitude Dispersion Index (ADI). It showed values between 0.1 and 0.4 for many dam structures, which is comparable to normal corner reflectors (CRs), confirming the reliability of these signals for PSI analysis. This work underscores the feasibility of using ECRs to enhance monitoring capabilities at dam infrastructure.
UT WOS:001465259100001
ER

PT J
AU Pezo, M
   Cuevas, C
   Wagemann, E
   Cendoya, A
AF Pezo, Matias
   Cuevas, Cristian
   Wagemann, Enrique
   Cendoya, Aitor
TI Net Zero Energy Building technologies - Reversible Heat Pump/Organic
   Rankine Cycle coupled with Solar Collectors and combined Heat Pump/
   Photovoltaics - Case study of a Chilean mid-rise residential building
DE Organic Rankine cycle; Heat pump; Solar energy; Residential building;
   Numerical model
ID DOMESTIC HOT-WATER; PERFORMANCE; CONDENSATION; SIMULATION; DESIGN
AB In the following years, the building sector will have to considerably reduce its final energy demand and emissions by adopting new technologies. This paper introduces two innovative technologies capable of reducing the final energy demand of residential buildings: A Heat Pump/Organic Rankine Cycle system coupled to solar thermal collectors (HP/ORC-COL), and a Heat Pump coupled with Photovoltaic panels (HP -PV). The HP/ORC-COL system alternates between generating either heat or electricity, whereas the HP -PV system produces them separately. The goal is to compare both systems through their Seasonal Performance Factor (SPF), equivalent emissions, operational cost, and Net Zero Energy Building (NZEB) potential. Additionally, the impact on the heating demand of retrofitting existing buildings with the Passivhaus Standard is studied. The heating, domestic hot water, and electricity demands are determined by considering the climate conditions of three polluted Chilean cities: Santiago, Concepci <acute accent>on, and Temuco. The proposed systems are evaluated through numerical models developed in Python and validated with data from manufacturer catalogues. The validation of the models allows to enhance the result accuracy of the integrated overall model by closely aligning outputs with real conditions, and therefore increases the reliability of the prediction on the potential of the building to reach net zero energy. Results show that applying the Passivhaus standard allows to reduce heating requirements by up to 30% in all cities. The SPF and electricity production of the HP -PV system is better than the HP/ORC-COL, reaching a NZEB potential of 76.3% in Santiago, 66.6% in Concepci <acute accent>on and 60.4% in Temuco. The average cost reduction of the HP/ORC-COL system compared to oil, natural gas, and wood pellet boilers is 82.7%, 90.4%, and 72.3%, whereas for the HP -PV system is 93.3%, 96.3%, and 89.2% respectively. On the CO 2 emissions, the HP/ORC-COL system presents an average reduction of 63.6% and 59.7% compared to an oil and natural gas boiler, while the HP -PV system has an average reduction of 72.5% and 69.5% respectively.
UT WOS:001258982700001
ER

PT J
AU Mosaffa, AH
   Farshi, LG
   Khalili, S
AF Mosaffa, A. H.
   Farshi, L. Garousi
   Khalili, S.
TI A novel enhanced ammonia-water power/cooling cogeneration system with
   dual level cooling temperature: Thermodynamic and economic assessments
DE Ammonia/Water mixture; Power/Cooling cogeneration; Thermoeconomic
   analysis; Waste heat recovery; Ejector
ID COMBINED POWER; ABSORPTION-REFRIGERATION; THERMOECONOMIC ANALYSIS;
   TECHNOECONOMIC ANALYSIS; EXERGY ANALYSIS; CYCLE DRIVEN; KALINA CYCLE;
   HEAT; OPTIMIZATION
AB The present study proposed and investigated a novel parallel combined cooling and power (CCP) system using the ammonia-water solution as a working fluid. The major advantage of this system is employing two evaporators to produce cooling in dual level cooling temperatures and capacities. To produce high-temperature refrigeration output, an ejector refrigeration loop is introduced. Moreover, the power generation subsystem is employed between absorber and rectifier to recover of ammonia content in the vapor exiting the turbine for refrigeration. To prediction of ejector performance, a new model is proposed based on the shock circle model. To find the effect of key parameters on the system performance, the system is analyzed thermo-economically. The parametric study results show that high-temperature cooling load has the biggest effect on both thermodynamic and economic performance. Moreover, a parametric optimization is conducted and the optimized system is compared with several ammonia-water CCP systems in the literature. The comparison results show a significant enhancement in thermodynamic performance. In this case, the optimal energy efficiency of 68.8 %, exergy efficiency of 37 % and cooling-to-power ratio of 8.77 are estimated. From economic analysis, the optimal net present value and simple payback period are obtained by 49.2 M$ and 4.8 years, respectively.
UT WOS:000689680300003
ER

PT J
AU Ghanbari, K
   Maleki, A
   Ochbelagh, DR
AF Ghanbari, Kamyar
   Maleki, Akbar
   Ochbelagh, Dariush Rezaei
TI Optimal design of solar/wind/energy storage system-powered RO
   desalination unit: Single and multi-objective optimization
DE Hybrid solar/wind energy system; Reverse osmosis desalination;
   Meta-heuristic methods; Multi and single-objective optimization; Optimal
   design
ID ENERGY
AB Hybrid Renewable Energy Systems (HRES), particularly those independent of the grid and powered by wind and solar energy, have gained increased interest as potential solutions to meet both potable water and electricity demand. Given the complex nature of these systems, achieving an optimal balance between different renewable energy resources, coupled with an appropriate energy storage system, necessitates precise consideration to devise an effective engineering solution. In this study, a HRES comprising photovoltaic panels, wind turbines, batteries, and a reverse osmosis desalination unit is designed and modeled to enhance the availability of potable water and meet the electricity demand. To optimize the proposed system properly, with the aim of minimizing costs and increasing reliability, six different algorithms are proposed: Genetic Algorithm (GA), Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO), Harmony Search (HS), Non-dominated Sorting GA-II (NSGA-II), Multi-Objective PSO (MOPSO), and Multi-Objective HS (MOHS). The system is optimized using both single and multi-objective approaches with these proposed methods. The results are compared, and the best method is identified based on statistical analysis and each algorithm's performance in finding the optimal solution. In single-objective optimization, the PSO algorithm outperforms the other methods, while in multi-objective optimization, after applying the MultiCriteria Decision-Making method, MOPSO is identified as the best solution. Furthermore, a sensitivity analysis is conducted on some meteorological and economic parameters of the system. This validates the results obtained through the optimization process and identifies key parameters that have the most significant effect on the technical and economic aspects of the system. According to the results, the Total Annual Cost (TAC) of the optimal configuration for the proposed system is $4,368,500 at a 2% level of uncertainty using the singleobjective approach, and $6,087,200 at a 0.82% level of power unavailability using the multi-objective approach. Additionally, sensitivity analysis reveals that among the parameters investigated, the solar panel price is the most influential, causing a 17% change in the TAC when varying it from 0% to -20%, and a 13% change in the TAC when varying it from 0% to 20%.
UT WOS:001266453600001
ER

PT J
AU Yin, JQ
   Yu, ZT
   Zhang, CH
   Tian, ML
   Han, JT
AF Yin, Jiqiang
   Yu, Zeting
   Zhang, Chenghui
   Tian, Minli
   Han, Jitian
TI Thermodynamic analysis and multi-objective optimization of a novel
   power/cooling cogeneration system for low-grade heat sources
DE Ammonia-water mixture; Power; Cogeneration system; Absorber-ejector
   refrigeration; Cycle coupling; Multi-objective optimization
ID KALINA CYCLE; EXERGY ANALYSIS; COMBINED POWER; GAS-TURBINE;
   THERMOECONOMIC OPTIMIZATION; ABSORPTION CYCLE; WASTE HEAT; DRIVEN;
   ENERGY; ORC
AB A novel power/cooling cogeneration system based on an ammonia-water power cycle is proposed and investigated. The cooling capacity of the conventional combined system is much improved since an absorption-ejector refrigeration cycle is introduced. Besides the novel combined system could get more high-grade work at the same time obtain amounts of refrigeration due to the unique coupling mode. A mathematical model of the novel system is developed for system simulations under steady-state conditions. The results show that the thermal efficiency and the energy efficiency are 21.34% and 38.95%, respectively. Energy analysis shows that the energy destruction mainly occurs in the recovery heat exchanger, followed by boiler and rectifier, respectively. Parametric study shows that the absorber temperature, the cycle high pressure, the temperature at boiler outlet and the extracting ratio have significant effects on the system performance. In addition, a multi-objective optimization using NSGA-II method is carried out to obtain the final optimums of the proposed system. The optimization results show that the energy efficiency and the overall capital cost rate are 37.24% and 0.69408 $/ h, respectively, and the thermal efficiency versus the overall capital cost rate are found to be 20.99% and 0.73351 $/h.
UT WOS:000434004200006
ER

PT C
AU Buhagiar, T
   Cayuela, JP
   Procopiou, A
   Richards, S
   Ramlachan, R
AF Buhagiar, Thierry
   Cayuela, Jean-Paul
   Procopiou, Andreas
   Richards, Simon
   Ramlachan, Ravindranauth
GP IEEE
TI Smart Substation For The French Power Grid
DE Digital substation; process bus; situational awareness; IEC 61850;
   protection schemes; smart substations
AB The paper describes a smart substation project launched two years ago, as part of the French government's plan "investments for the future". This project is named "Poste Intelligent" within RTE (Smart Substation, in English), and aims to test in real conditions the latest technological developments for both primary and secondary equipment using the second edition of the IEC 61850 standard and new information and communication technologies in a fully interoperable solution. For the first time in France, the substation is designed like an autonomous entity, with adaptive solutions using horizontal inter-substation communications, in addition to the traditional hierarchical concept of "substation to SCADA.
   To manage complexity, a strong and well-designed automation system gives better and faster answers, and the automation system is based on a distributed design. Two demonstrators were selected in the principal French area in terms of penetration of wind energy with more than 600 MW installed power on the distribution system in a rural area that creates reversed energy flow from LV to EHV through the local HV system.
   For the primary equipment, RTE implements optical CTs and low power VTs with a smaller footprint, and uses native fully digital breakers, disconnectors and power transformers. For secondary equipment, RTE implement its first process bus based on a full optical network including more than 20 breakers and at two voltage levels (220 and 90kV). At the same time, various new sensors installed on both primary and secondary equipment feed a full monitoring solution. A new HMI gives enhanced situational awareness for automatic real time optimization of the load capacities. The smart substation concept also addresses in the process bus and the station bus other needs such as meteorology, access control, video infrared, virtual fence, monitoring sensors, water and electricity supply, thus creating a global native IEC 61850 solution.
   The design of the smart substation system has a brand new approach to redundancy and reliability for overall optimisation and standardisation. In particular, the protection plans that were dependent on the voltage level are converging toward a single solution. "Poste Intelligent" is a utility's way of embracing the best digital substation technologies from a reputable vendor, tailored in a practical way to meet its needs.
UT WOS:000403007100042
ER

PT J
AU Davoodi, V
   Kazemiani-Najafabadi, P
   Rad, EA
AF Davoodi, Vajihe
   Kazemiani-Najafabadi, Parisa
   Rad, Ehsan Amiri
TI Presenting a power and cascade cooling cycle driven using solar energy
   and natural gas
DE Solar-gas system; Combined power and cooling; Genetic algorithm;
   Absorption-compression chiller; Waste heat recovery
ID KALINA CYCLE; ABSORPTION-REFRIGERATION; THERMOECONOMIC OPTIMIZATION;
   EXERGOECONOMIC ANALYSIS; COMBINED HEAT; SYSTEM; AMMONIA; PERFORMANCE;
   EVAPORATOR; ORC
AB A configuration is presented where solar energy is parallel with fossil fuel to steadily supply a combined power and cascade cooling system. The cascade cooling system produces a steady cooling load at shallow temperatures. The variations of solar radiation during a year are considered. The system combines an improved ammonia-water power cycle with an absorption-compression cascade refrigeration system. The exhaust from the power cycle drives the absorption chiller. Working fluids are ammonia-water for absorption and power cycles and R134a for compression chiller. The effects of turbine inlet temperature, the ammonia concentration in the power cycle, boiler pressure, and generator temperature are investigated. Considering the cooling section's exergy efficiency, the generator temperature is optimized at 110.5 degrees C. The power cycle's boiler pressure and ammonia concentration are optimized using a genetic algorithm for various cooling loads at various turbine inlet temperature values to find the maximum annual exergy efficiency. The results show that, in all investigated cooling loads, the maximum annual exergy efficiency with a mean value of 65.66% happens at the turbine inlet temperature of 210 degrees C, an average boiler pressure of 58.56 bar, and an average ammonia concentration of 81.16%. (c) 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000780033200001
ER

PT J
AU Kopp, JB
   Ball, LK
   Cohen, A
   Kenney, RJ
   Lempert, KD
   Miller, PE
   Muntner, P
   Qureshi, N
   Yelton, SA
AF Kopp, Jeffrey B.
   Ball, Lynda K.
   Cohen, Andrew
   Kenney, Robert J.
   Lempert, Kenneth D.
   Miller, Paul E.
   Muntner, Paul
   Qureshi, Nauman
   Yelton, Sarah A.
TI Kidney patient care in disasters: Emergency planning for patients and
   dialysis facilities
AB The catastrophic 2005 hurricane season alerted Americans to the need for a more effective response to mass casualty incidents. To address the needs of the nephrology community, the Kidney Community Emergency Response Coalition (KCERC) was formed, with representatives from more than 50 governmental agencies and private organizations. After completing phase 1 of its work, the KCERC issued recommendations for patients, dialysis units, and providers. During phase 2, the KCERC will promote implementation of those recommendations. During a disaster, the KCERC will host a daily conference call on which dialysis facilities, the End-Stage Renal Disease Networks, and emergency response officials will coordinate disaster response. Predisaster preparation for kidney patients should stress identification of alternative dialysis facilities, education about the renal emergency diet, and plans for early evacuation from the disaster area and for evacuating with medical documents and medications. Dialysis facilities are required to have a disaster plan; regular revision and rehearsal are essential. Critical issues for dialysis facilities include identification of partner facilities, a robust communications plan that takes into account the limitations of telephones and broadband access, staff shortages in the face of a possible influx of new patients, the delivery of service in the face of compromised utilities (water, power), and the recovery of a dialysis facility that experiences flooding or structural damage. A timeline to safety for dialysis patients can be visualized; if specific tasks are accomplished at each disaster stage, then it is likely that the health of these vulnerable patients can be protected.
UT WOS:000247612700029
ER

PT J
AU Pilav, A
AF Pilav, Armina
TI Before the War, War, After the War: Urban Imageries for Urban Resilience
DE patterns of urban resilience; Sarajevo; urban conditions; urban
   imageries; war
AB This article discusses urban conditions in cities that in their recent history experienced war. It puts the social component of the city into relationship with the destroyed and dangerous urban environment. In the period between 1992 and 1996 in Sarajevo and in other Bosnian cities, survival became the most important activity for citizens. In the period directly preceding the war, urban conditions-mobility, infrastructure, and services-started to malfunction. As a result, ordinary city life became an object of new urban imageries influenced by new urban conditions and rules of behavior. The first bombing of the city on 6 April 1992 was a sign that the war had started. It brought with it war urban conditions: lack of public transport, electricity, water, and food. The inability of the city and the people living in it to function normally demanded new patterns of urban resilience, which were partly a product of the city's prewar conditions. Using Sarajevo as a case study, this article examines whether the city had predisaster coping strategies and, if so, the extent to which these plans were used during the war. Finally, the article observes how citizens, with their own imageries about cities, can participate in the creation of patterns of urban resilience and future predisaster strategies.
UT WOS:000209368900004
ER

PT J
AU Alquraidi, A
   Awad, M
AF Alquraidi, Alya
   Awad, Mahmoud
TI Physical Asset Management for Critical Utilities- A Systematic
   Literature Review
DE Keywords asset lifecycle; asset management; electricity; maturity model;
   utilities; water asset lifecycle; asset management; electricity;
   maturity model; utilities; water
ID ISO 55000 SERIES; MODEL; IMPLEMENTATION; PERFORMANCE; METHODOLOGY;
   FRAMEWORK; COSTS
AB Asset management plays a significant role in ensuring the system availability and sustainability of utilities, encompassing critical sectors such as electricity, water, and wastewater. An efficient asset management is a linchpin that safeguards a resilient service to the community through system availability maximization and service disruption avoidance. This study attempts to provide a systematic review of recent literature focused on the asset management of utilities, including asset lifecycle stages and management models. Based on the review, several research gaps that warrant further investigation is highlighted and verified by subject matter experts. Literature review was organized based on the four lifecycle stages of any asset which are planning, acquisition, operations and maintenance, and finally, disposal. A total of 249 articles were included and reviewed as part of this study. Most of articles reviewed tackles asset management in general and few focused on utilities' physical asset management. Despite the importance of all four stages of assets lifecycle, researchers focused more on asset maintenance with less attention paid to the other stages. The review also highlights the need to develop a holistic asset management maturity model to identify gaps and advocate performance improvement actions. Further research on recent important development such as resiliency, digital transformation, acquisition and outsourcing strategies and their impact on assets is warranted.
UT WOS:001263400700001
ER

PT J
AU Christodoulou, J
   Rotheram-Borus, MJ
   Rezvan, PH
   Comulada, WS
   Stewart, J
   Almirol, E
   Tomlinson, M
AF Christodoulou, Joan
   Rotheram-Borus, Mary Jane
   Rezvan, Panteha Hayati
   Comulada, W. Scott
   Stewart, Jackie
   Almirol, Ellen
   Tomlinson, Mark
TI Where you live matters: Township neighborhood factors important to
   resilience among south African children from birth to 5 years of age
DE Resilience; Child development; Low middle income countries; Maternal and
   child health; South Africa
ID PERINATAL MENTAL-DISORDERS; HEALTH; INCOME; DEPRESSION; CHILDHOOD;
   INFANTS; YOUTH; DETERMINANTS; INEQUALITIES; FAMILIES
AB Objective: This is a secondary analysis examining neighborhood factors predicting high rates of child resilience in South African Township neighborhoods.
   Methods: A population cohort of South African pregnant women (98%; n = 1238), were recruited and assessed across five years with high follow-up rates (83-96%). Resilient children were identified based on consistently meeting global standards for growth, cognitive functioning, and behavior. Community infrastructure, maternal risks, and caretaking behaviors were examined based on neighborhood as predictors of childhood resilience.
   Results: The rate of resilient children varied significantly by neighborhood (9.5% to 27%). Mothers living in high prevalence neighborhoods (HPN) compared to low prevalence neighborhoods (LPN) were older and more likely be living with three or more people in formal housing with access to water and electricity. In the HPN, resilient children had more food security and were less likely to have mothers with depressed mood. Migration to rural areas occurred more frequently among resilient compared to non-resilient children in the HPN.
   Conclusion: This study applies a novel measure of resilience that is multidimensional and longitudinally defined. Living in formal housing with consistent access to food was associated with resilience. Migration to rural areas among families living in HPN suggests that rural areas could be protective. Trial Registration: ClinicalTrials.gov registration #NCT00996528.
UT WOS:000911794000001
ER

PT J
AU Crovella, T
   Lagioia, G
   Paiano, A
AF Crovella, Tiziana
   Lagioia, Giovanni
   Paiano, Annarita
TI GREEN PUBLIC PROCUREMENT FOR A SUSTAINABLE PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION IN A
   RESILIENCE CONTEXT
DE benefits; green public procurement; Italy; obstacles; public
   administration
ID CHALLENGES
AB Green Public Procurement is the approach adopted by Public Administration (PA) that integrate application of environmental criteria and technologies along entire life cycle of the ecological purchasing process. It is a voluntary instrument within the Europe but mandatory in Italy in accordance with article 34 of Law Decree 50/2016 and the new Public Contract Code. Subsequently, in the GPP was integrated the Action Plan for the environmental sustainability of public administration consumption in 2008 which defines national objectives, categories of goods and services, defines the Minimum Environmental Criteria (MEC) and provides guidelines for PA, with the aim of promoting the adoption of the GPP. Moreover, within European member state, the Italian Public Contract Code provides for compliance with public procedures only in the case that such contracts are strictly functional to the core business. The aim of this review is to analyze the difficulties that currently limit the application of GPP especially in Italy, strictly connected to the special sectors of the PA. The authors carried out an analysis of the evolution path of GPP and of the possible solutions that can be adopted to support the integration in the public administration. The result underlined that an important limitation concerns business of public administrations operating in special sectors such as gas, thermal energy, electricity, water, transport, postal services, exploitation of geographical area.
UT WOS:001171003100004
ER

PT J
AU Liu, XL
   Zeng, Z
   Hu, G
   Asgari, A
AF Liu, Xianglong
   Zeng, Zhi
   Hu, Guang
   Asgari, Armin
TI Thermodynamic, environmental, and economic analysis of a novel power and
   water production system driven by gas turbine cycle
DE Power and freshwater cogeneration; Thermodynamic analysis;
   Exergoeconomic analysis; Economic analysis; Economic profitability
ID ORGANIC RANKINE-CYCLE; KALINA CYCLE; EXERGY ANALYSIS; 4E ANALYSIS;
   OPTIMIZATION; ENERGY; PERFORMANCE
AB In the present study, the performance of a creative poly-generation plant generating electricity and freshwater was energetically, exegetically, economically, and environmentally analyzed. The system consists of a gas turbine as the prime mover and Kalina and humidification-dehumidification desalination units for waste heat recovery purposes. A sensitivity analysis was conducted to evaluate the influence of design parameters variation on the proposed system performance. The construction feasibility of the proposed system was assessed by utilizing Net Present Value and the payback period. According to the obtained data from the base simulation conditions, the total gained output ratio, exergetic efficiency, the total cost of products, Levelized total emission, and freshwater production capacity were obtained 0.9574, 43.05%, 20.22/GJ, 63679kg/kW, and 10.77kg/s. The combustion chamber has the highest exergy destruction rate by 16382kW. More -over, the sensitivity analysis revealed that an increase in the combustion temperature reduces pollutant emission and enhances the power generation rate and exergy efficiency. Regarding 2.5/GJ and 0.085/kWh as the fuel cost and electricity price, a total profit of 18.93M at the end of economic book life can be obtained, with a payback time of 6.39years, demonstrating the feasibility of the plant for establishment. (C) 2022 THE AUTHORS. Published by Elsevier BV on behalf of Faculty of Engineering, Alexandria University.
UT WOS:000806192400007
ER

PT C
AU Kwasinski, A
AF Kwasinski, Alexis
GP IEEE
TI Data Centers Resilience Planning
DE Data Center; Dependence; Microgrids; Planning; Resilience; Small Modular
   Reactors; Virtual Energy Storage
ID ENERGY
AB This paper presents a complete, yet simple, risk-based quantitative model for studying data center resilience with a focus on its power supply and other dependencies. First, the paper introduces its definitions and metrics. Secondly, the paper discusses how to assess the probabilistic component corresponding to the potential hazard that could disrupt data center operations by presenting the quantitative stochastic model necessary for the analysis. Thirdly, the paper discusses vulnerabilities and their impact on resilience, with a particular focus on dependencies on electric power and water supply. Finally, solutions for improved resilience are discussed while evaluating tradeoffs in their implementation. This analysis is supported by realistic case studies based on actual past natural disasters.
UT WOS:001849379300028
ER

PT J
AU Eveloy, V
   Rodgers, P
   Al Alili, A
AF Eveloy, Valerie
   Rodgers, Peter
   Al Alili, Ali
TI Multi-objective optimization of a pressurized solid oxide fuel cell -
   gas turbine hybrid system integrated with seawater reverse osmosis
DE Solid oxide fuel cell - gas turbine; Organic Rankine cycle;
   Desalination; Optimization; Exergy; Economic
ID ORGANIC RANKINE-CYCLE; THERMOECONOMIC OPTIMIZATION; ENVIRONMENTAL
   ANALYSIS; MSF DESALINATION; OPTIMAL-DESIGN; HEAT-RECOVERY; SOFC-GT;
   POWER; ENERGY; EXERGY
AB To improve the capacity and efficiency of distributed power and fresh water generation in coastal industrial facilities affected by regional water scarcity, a natural gas-fueled, pressurized solid oxide fuel cell-gas turbine (SOFC-GT) hybrid is integrated with a bottoming organic Rankine cycle (ORC) and seawater reverse osmosis (RO) desalination plant. This power and water co-generation system is optimized in terms of two objectives, maximum exergy efficiency and minimum cost rate, using a genetic algorithm. The exergetic and economic performance of three solutions representing maximum exergy efficiency, minimum cost rate, and a compromise between efficiency and cost rate, are compared. When imposing a water production requirement (reference case), the selected compromise multi-objective optimization solution delivers a net power output of 2.4 MWe and 636 m(3)/day of permeate, at a co-generation exergy efficiency and cost rate of 71.3% and 0.0256 USD/s, respectively. The system payback time is estimated to be less than six years for typical economic parameters, but would become unprofitable in the most unfavorable economic scenario considered. Overall, the results indicate the thermodynamic and economic benefits of reverse osmosis over thermal desalination processes for integration with high-efficiency power generation systems in coastal regions impacted by domestic gas shortages and water scarcity. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000399510900050
ER

PT J
AU Pang, YJ
   Wu, B
   Cao, YP
   Jia, XH
AF Pang, Yingjun
   Wu, Bo
   Cao, Yanping
   Jia, Xiaohong
TI Spatiotemporal changes in terrestrial water storage in the
   Beijing-Tianjin Sandstorm Source Region from GRACE satellites
DE Terrestrial water storage; Beijing-Tianjin Sandstorm Source Region;
   Groundwater; LULC
ID GROUNDWATER STORAGE; RIVER-BASIN; LAND-USE; GRAVITY; DEPLETION; CHINA;
   VARIABILITY; VEGETATION; IMPACTS; MODELS
AB The Sandstorm Source Control Project in and around the Beijing-Tianjin region was one of the most important ecological projects in China. Terrestrial water storage (TWS) has important impacts on the ecological construction, agriculture, industry, and resident's lives. Based on the Gravity Recovery and Climate Experiment (GRACE) data, meteorological and Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) data, etc., this paper analyzed spatiotemporal characteristics of TWS, groundwater storage, and precipitation, and explored the influencing factors of regional TWS combined with land use and land cover (LULC), social and economic data. The most important results were as follows: (1) From 2003 to 2016, TWS in the Beijing-Tianjin Sandstorm Source Region showed a decreasing trend with a rate of 3.14 mm yr(-1). (2) The TWS decline was caused mainly by groundwater overexploitation, but not precipitation variation. (3) Spatiotemporal variations of TWS were related to LULC. The area with the most serious decrease of TWS was mainly located in the southwestern part of the region, where farmland percentage and population density were greater. (4) Reducing the percent of farmland and tree planting, and adding the shrub and grass planting, could be a viable choice for the Beijing-Tianjin Sandstorm Source Control Project. These results provide a scientific basis for regional water resource and ecological management. (C) 2020 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation and China Water and Power Press. Production and Hosting by Elsevier B.V.
UT WOS:000564216100009
ER

PT J
AU Zheng, HY
   Miao, CY
   Zhang, GH
   Li, XY
   Wang, S
   Wu, JW
   Gou, JJ
AF Zheng, Haiyan
   Miao, Chiyuan
   Zhang, Guanghui
   Li, Xiaoyan
   Wang, Shuai
   Wu, Jingwen
   Gou, Jiaojiao
TI Is the runoff coefficient increasing or decreasing after ecological
   restoration on China's Loess Plateau?
DE Loess Plateau; Precipitation; Runoff coefficient; Budyko-based
   elasticity method; Land use/cover change
ID CLIMATE-CHANGE; EVAPORATION; PRECIPITATION; VARIABILITY; RESPONSES;
   EROSION
AB The "Grain for Green" project (GGP) was launched in 1999 on China's Loess Plateau to reduce soil erosion, which had far-reaching impacts on the local eco-hydrological processes. In this study, we use monthly runoff depth and precipitation datasets spanning 1961 to 2015 for 16 primary basins of the plateau to reveal changes in runoff generation capacity before and after the GGP. We use a Budyko-based elasticity method to calculate the runoff depth (R-1) and runoff coefficient (C-1) exclusively attributable to land use/ cover change. Results indicate that the mean annual runoff coefficients (C-0) decline by 26%-76% from the periods 1961-1999 to 2000-2015. The annual observed runoff depth (R-0) and C-0 for 75% of basins show significant downward trends during 1961-1999; after the implementation of the GGP, both annual R-0 and annual C-0 for over 50% of basins show upward trends. The study further finds that the increase of erosive rainfall during the period 2000-2015, whose mean increasing rate reaches 4.6 mm/year, is the main reason for the upward trends of R-0 and C-0. After removing the effect of precipitation variation during this period, we find that 11 out of 16 basins show decreased trends for C-1, with the downward rate between 2.4% and 6.0% per year. The reduction rate in semi-arid areas is about four times the rate in semi-humid areas. The results remind us to consider the carrying capacity of local water resources when implementing soil and water conservation measures across the Loess Plateau. (C) 2021 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water & Power Press. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd.
UT WOS:000659949800003
ER

PT C
AU Hackenberg, D
   Patterson, MK
AF Hackenberg, Daniel
   Patterson, Michael K.
GP IEEE
TI Evaluation of a New Data Center Air-cooling Architecture: The Down-flow
   Plenum
DE data center; air cooling; raised floor; plenum; containment
AB The rate of innovation in IT system design and especially in High Performance Computing continues to be very high. To keep pace TU Dresden has constructed its new data center using the Plenum concept. The traditional raised floor was substituted by a full building story, creating a highly flexible space to transport power, water, and air. A strict hot-aisle air separation is used and the computer room air-handling (CRAH) units in downflow configuration are positioned directly beneath the hot aisles. This unique arrangement necessitates an unconventional downward flow of hot air from the enclosed hot aisle. Extensive testing has been performed in a cluster of 24 racks (12 per side) equipped with (3+1)x100 kW CRAH unit cooling capacity and 60 test fixtures (air heaters) with 5-15 kW heating power each. Our analysis demonstrates the extremely high efficiency of this air cooling concept even in high-density configurations, up to at least 30 kW per rack. This efficiency is mostly due to the very short airflow paths and wide open cross-sections. We also showcase that no malicious thermal stratification occurs in our hot air downflow configuration. A detailed analysis of the CRAH controls for temperature (through cooling water flow modulation) and airflow (fan speed) highlights the challenges of such control systems in enclosed hot aisle configurations at high power density and short feedback loops. The analysis also considers dynamically changing load patterns including very low partial load scenarios and aspects of operational reliability.
UT WOS:000390436000057
ER

PT J
AU Reed, HS
   Halma, FF
AF Reed, HS
   Halma, FF
TI Further observations on the relations between growth and sap
   concentration in citrus trees
AB Seasonal fluctuation in sap concentration of lemon (Citrus limonium var.) trees bore a certain inverse proportionality to their rate of growth, the highest concentration occurring during more or less complete dormancy, and the lowest during vegetative activity. The water deficit of shoots increased rapidly from May until early July, reached its maximum in August, and then rapidly decreased. There was a certain correspondence between the evaporating power (water deficit) of the air and the water deficit of lemon shoots. Fruit wood generally had a higher sap concentration than shoot wood of similar age. The sap concentration of lemon trees often showed a depression following severe pruning, but usually this effect was transitory. Repeated observations over an entire season did not show differences of sap concentration of such magnitude or reliability as to lend support to the idea that pruning greatly altered the concentration except temporarily. The sap concentration of thrifty and unthrifty orange (C. sinensis) trees showed rather significant differences. While the fruit was setting the thrifty trees had a higher sap concentration; but as the summer passed the unthrifty trees suffered from scanty irrigation and other unfavorable cultural conditions, with the result that their growth was retarded and the sap concentration increased. The thrifty trees suffered less premature abscission of fruit than the unthrifty. The ph of the sap of both lemon and orange trees showed small seasonal fluctuations. During rapid vegetative growth, when presumably carbohydrates were being rapidly oxidized, there was a small increase in acidity. The sap had a low buffer action.
UT WOS:000188349000066
ER

PT J
AU Qin, HX
   Chen, W
   Zhang, T
   Ma, LR
   Xue, XD
   Zhang, XL
AF Qin, Haoxuan
   Chen, Wei
   Zhang, Tong
   Ma, Linrui
   Xue, Xiaodai
   Zhang, Xuelin
TI Thermal analysis and parameter optimization of advanced adiabatic
   compressed air energy storage with parabolic trough solar collector
   auxiliary reheating
DE Advanced adiabatic compressed air energy; storage; Parabolic trough
   solar collector; Thermal analysis; Parameter optimization; Transient
   characteristics
AB Due to the transformation of energy structure, the compressed air energy storage technology urgently requires coupling with new energy for auxiliary heating to improve energy storage efficiency. A novel integrated system of solar auxiliary reheating compressed air energy storage (SAR-CAES) is proposed, and coupling realized by discretization algorithm. A particular solar thermal collected by parabolic trough solar collector (PTSC) is utilized for auxiliary reheating the compressed air entering the air turbines. Based on the conservation principles of mass, momentum, and energy, the dynamic model of the proposed system is constructed in Matllab software. The reliability of the mathematical model of PTSC and gas turbine are conducted by comparing with literature data. According to the energy and exergy analysis, the proposed model is proven to obey the first and second laws of thermodynamics. The impacts of spatiotemporal parameters, including month and latitude, on the thermal performances are investigated. It is found that the most suitable area for this system is the region near the Tropic of Cancer. Taking power output and system efficiency as the optimization targets, the multi-objective optimization of the proposed system is conducted by the genetic algorithm. The optimal heat collection area and inlet temperature of gas turbine are determined to be 9865m2 and 569.4 K, respectively. The solar energy utilization efficiency of SAR-CAES system is 67.86 % higher than that of the ammonia water power cycle in winter and 44.28 % higher in summer.
UT WOS:001399268800001
ER

PT C
AU Rees, AAJ
   Greenberg, J
   Hebner, J
AF Rees, Andrew A. J.
   Greenberg, Josh
   Hebner, Justin
BE Gruber, A
   Standifer, R
TI Striking a Balance in the North: How Edmonton Gets the Most from Its
   Water Transmission Main Condition Assessment Program
AB Edmonton, with a population of 1.4 million, is North America's northernmost major city. The weather is below freezing for a third of the year [the coldest day in 2024 was -47 degrees C (-52 degrees F)], compressing the construction season and creating competing priorities. EPCOR, the region's water and power utility, budgeted over $1.8 billion in capital investments from 2024 to 2027 to support reliability, city growth, flood mitigation, odour reduction, and other performance improvements. This includes EPCOR's Water Transmission Main Condition Assessment Program covering 510 km (320 mi) of pipelines. Managing the program among so many other regional priorities is challenging. Proactive and preventative maintenance projects are not always the most attention grabbing. Getting the most out of each water transmission main assessment project is a must for EPCOR. With influence from Alberta's oil and gas pipeline industry, EPCOR has embraced the most advanced inspection technologies. They leverage free-swimming inline inspection (ILI) tools that can inspect and assess long distances in a short period of time but add inherent project risk. Balancing this risk and efficiency takes planning, with EPCOR identifying potential projects up to 1 year in advance. EPCOR's program started in 2018 with critical and large-diameter valve assessment and expanded in 2019 to include high-resolution ILI of water transmission mains. In total, EPCOR has assessed nearly 50 km (30 mi) of water transmission mains and over 1,300 valves. There have been challenges, but the successes have far outweighed them with multiple proactive repairs that prevented failures and helped maintain public confidence and utility reputation. The presentation will summarize EPCOR's Water Transmission Main Condition Assessment Program, including highlights, challenges, and results.
UT WOS:001587119900058
ER

PT J
AU Liu, ZW
   Yang, HB
   Wang, TH
   Yang, DW
AF Liu, Ziwei
   Yang, Hanbo
   Wang, Taihua
   Yang, Dawen
TI Estimating the annual runoff frequency distribution based on climatic
   conditions and catchment characteristics: A case study across China
ID ANNUAL WATER-BALANCE; INTERANNUAL VARIABILITY; PROBABILITY-DISTRIBUTION;
   VEGETATION DYNAMICS; BUDYKO FRAMEWORK; L-MOMENT; SOIL;
   EVAPOTRANSPIRATION; SEASONALITY; STREAMFLOW
AB Estimation of the annual runoff frequency distribution is an essential basis for water resource management. This study proposes a framework for estimating the annual runoff frequency distribution across 252 catchments in China based on climatic conditions and catchment characteristics from 1956 to 2000. The Budyko land-specific parameter n, which intergrates influences other than the mean climate conditions, is firstly estimated based on easily ascertainable catchment characteristics without the requirements of having long-term runoff observations. Second, the annual runoff statistical parameters, namely, the mean value and standard deviation (STD), are derived based on the Budyko rainfall-runoff model with the central moment method. Finally, the annual runoff on any recurrence interval is obtained by the Pearson-III frequency function. Results show that the parameter n can be estimated from the catchment average slope, longitude, and climatic seasonality index. The estimated statistical parameters of annual runoff have acceptable agreement with observed values (mean value: R2 -0.94, STD: R2 -0.91, and both relative errors <10%). In addition, estimated annual runoff at each catchment for typical wet and dry years (25% and 75% ranked percentiles) coincides well with observed values, with R2 of 0.92-0.93 and relative errors less than 10%. This result indicates the robustness of this framework for estimating the annual runoff frequency distribution, which provides a simple and effective tool for ungauged or poorly gauged catchments.& COPY; 2022 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
UT WOS:001021606300001
ER

PT J
AU Jawad, M
   Nadeem, MSA
   Shim, SO
   Khan, IR
   Shaheen, A
   Habib, N
   Hussain, L
   Aziz, W
AF Jawad, Muhammad
   Nadeem, Malik Sajjad Ahmed
   Shim, Seong-O
   Khan, Ishtiaq Rasool
   Shaheen, Aliya
   Habib, Nazneen
   Hussain, Lal
   Aziz, Wajid
TI Machine Learning Based Cost Effective Electricity Load Forecasting Model
   Using Correlated Meteorological Parameters
DE Electricity load demand; electricity load forecasting; least cost
   forecasting model; machine learning; meteorological parameters
ID UNIT COMMITMENT; CLIMATE-CHANGE; DEMAND; TEMPERATURE; REGRESSION;
   FRAMEWORK; MARKET; IMPACT
AB Electricity, a fundamental commodity, must be generated as per required utilization which cannot be stored at large scales. The production cost heavily depends upon the source such as hydroelectric power plants, petroleum products, nuclear and wind energy. Besides overproduction and underproduction, electricity demand is driven by metrological parameters, economic and industrial activities. Therefore, the region specific accurate electric load forecasting can help to effectively manage, plan, and schedule appropriate low cost electricity generation units to decrease per unit cost and provision of on time energy for maximum financial benefits. Machine learning (ML) offers different supervised learning algorithms including multiple linear regression, support vector regressors with different kernels, k-nearest neighbors, Random Forest and AdaBoost to forecast the time series data, but the performance of these algorithms is data dependent. It is vitally important to consider correlated metrological parameters of the specific region for accurate prediction of electricity load demand using ML based forecasting models to minimize the price per unit. In this study, an algorithm is proposed to select least cost electric load forecasting model (lcELFM) using correlated meteorological parameters. We developed least cost forecasting models by minimizing root mean squared error, mean absolute error, and mean absolute percentage error. For simulations, the recorded electricity demand data is taken from a substation of water and power development authority Muzaffarabad city from 1st January 2014 to 31st December 2015. The meteorological time series data are obtained from the substation of Pakistan meteorological department for the same period and same region. Empirical results demonstrate the robustness of the proposed algorithm to select lcELFM. Moreover, SVR (Radial) based electric load forecasting model proves to be the robust model when built using correlated features (temperature and dew point) for the said region and in turn can save up to PKR 0.313 million daily.
UT WOS:000562101400001
ER

PT C
AU Fang, YP
   Zio, E
AF Fang, Yiping
   Zio, Enrico
GP IEEE
TI Optimizing the Resilience of Interdependent Infrastructure Systems
   against Intentional Attacks
DE resilience; intentional attacks; interdependent critical
   infrastructures; defender-attacker-defender model; optimization
AB This paper develops a defender-attacker-defender (DAD) model for the resilience optimization of interdependent critical infrastructures (CIs) against intentional at-tacks. In the outer level, the system defender identifies the components to be hardened in order to reduce the damage associated with the worst case attack. In the middle level, the attacker disrupts the system to inflict maximum damage. In the inner level, the defender responds to the attack to minimize the consequence of the attack by optimal operation of the system. A recently developed decomposition-based two-layer cutting plane algorithm is adopted to solve the proposed model. A case of interdependent power and water systems is presented to show the proposed model
UT WOS:000426453100011
ER

PT J
AU Liang, XL
   Zhai, XH
   Liang, AM
   Zhang, MJ
   Guo, KL
   Zhang, L
   Yang, J
   Cheng, ZH
   Cui, ZL
AF Liang, Xiaolei
   Zhai, Xiaohui
   Liang, Aimin
   Zhang, Mengjie
   Guo, Kailu
   Zhang, Lei
   Yang, Jun
   Cheng, Zhihua
   Cui, Zilin
TI Quantitative assessment of sediment sources in the Shanxi Fenhe River
   reservoir section: A comparative study using end-member mixing analysis
   and sediment fingerprinting
DE Fenhe reservoir; Sediment sources; Sediment fingerprinting; End-member
   mixing analysis; Quantitative assessment
ID DISCRIMINANT FUNCTION-ANALYSIS; YARDANG NATIONAL GEOPARK; LOESS PLATEAU;
   PROVENANCE; EROSION; STRATA; REGION; YIELD
AB Sediment accumulation in the upper Fenhe River basin threatens reservoir storage and ecological security, reflecting the broader soil erosion challenges across the Loess Plateau. To address the difficulty of tracing sources for the highly homogeneous geochemical conditions in this basin, this study integrated End-Member Mixing Analysis (EMMA) with a Sediment Fingerprinting (SF) analysis. A method was developed to combine the two analysis to determine the sources of the sediment deposited at samping sites throughout the basin. The study found that sediments were primarily sourced from proximal tributaries, with Jianhe, Lanhe, Dongnian, and Xinian Rivers contributing 91.6 %. The SF approach demonstrates higher sensitivity in detecting weak signals and minor sources (< 1 %) and exhibits stronger robustness under homogeneous conditions, whereas EMMA provides greater efficiency in rapidly attributing sediments to dominant sources, underscoring the complementary strengths of the two approaches. Sediment generation is driven by the coupling of loess parent material and anthropogenic disturbance, with mining acting as a key amplification factor and sloping farmland having limited impact. Based on these findings, a zoned management framework targeting the major sediment-contributing tributaries-"Source Interception-Process Regulation-Terminal Stabilization"- is proposed to strengthen full-chain management of fine sediment. This study identifies critical sediment-producing areas and controlling factors, clarifies management priorities, and provides a scientific basis for shifting sediment control in the upper Fenhe River basin from broad remediation to precise regulation, offering practical guidance for ecologically fragile regions of the Loess Plateau.(c) 2026 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation and China Water and Power Press. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/ 4.0/).
UT WOS:001756187800001
ER

PT J
AU Fan, HL
   Qiao, WY
   Zhu, DS
   Yang, LN
   Jiang, SX
   Liu, H
AF Fan, Hongliang
   Qiao, Wanying
   Zhu, Danshi
   Yang, Lina
   Jiang, Shuxin
   Liu, He
TI Polysaccharide-modified quinoa-wheat composite flour: Optimization of
   functional properties and flavor profiles in steamed buns
DE Soybean polysaccharides; Quinoa-wheat composite flour; Steamed bun
   quality; Textural properties; Volatile flavor compounds
AB This study evaluated the effects of soybean polysaccharides on quinoa-wheat composite flour and steamed buns. The polysaccharides increased the flour's solubility, swelling power, and water absorption by 60.67%, 18.17%, and 53.16%, respectively. In steamed buns, they improved the textural properties, raising springiness by 8.43% and resilience by 41.67%, while increasing specific volume and the height-to-diameter ratio by 1.40% and 7.98%, respectively. Flavor analysis showed modified volatile compound profiles. The findings demonstrate that soybean polysaccharides enhance the functional properties of composite flour and improve the quality of steamed buns, supporting their use in quinoa-based bakery products.
UT WOS:001684027100001
ER

PT J
AU Prosek, A
   Volkanovski, A
AF Prosek, Andrej
   Volkanovski, Andrija
TI Extended blackout mitigation strategy for PWR
ID FUKUSHIMA; SAFETY
AB The accident at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant demonstrated the vulnerability of the plants on the loss of electrical power and loss of the ultimate heat sink events.
   A set of measures are proposed and currently implemented in response of the accident at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant. Those measures include diverse and flexible mitigation strategies that increase the defence-in-depth for beyond-design-basis scenarios. Mitigation strategies are based on the utilization of the portable equipment to provide power and water to the nuclear power plants in order to maintain or restore key safety functions. The verification of the proposed measures with the plant specific safety analyses is endorsed in the mitigation strategies.
   This paper investigates utilization of the turbine driven auxiliary feedwater pump (TD-AFW) or portable water injection pump for the mitigation of the event of loss of all alternate current sources and batteries (extended station blackout). Methodology for assessment of the required pump injection flow rate with the application of the standard deterministic safety analysis code is developed and presented. The required injection rate to the steam generators is calculated from the cumulative water mass injected by the turbine driven auxiliary feedwater pump in the analysed scenarios, when desired normal level is maintained automatically. The developed methodology allows assessment of the required injections rates of pump, TD-AFW or portable, for different plant configurations and number of flow rate changes.
   The methodology is applied to a pressurized water reactor on reference model. Several case scenarios are developed and analysed considering different sources of reactor coolant system inventory loss and procedures to limit this loss.
   The obtained results show effectiveness of the proposed strategy for mitigation of the event of loss of all electric power sources at the nuclear power plant. The obtained results demonstrate the need for assessment of the pump injection flow rates before the utilization of the pump for mitigation of the event. The applicability of the developed method on operational power plant is validated. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000367413700033
ER

PT J
AU Niknejad, P
   Venneti, S
   Vasefi, M
   Jeffryes, C
   Barzegaran, MR
AF Niknejad, Payam
   Venneti, Srikar
   Vasefi, Maryam
   Jeffryes, Clayton
   Barzegaran, M. R.
TI An electrochemically assisted AC/DC microgrid configuration with waste
   water treatment capability
DE AC/DC Microgrid; Microbial Electrolysis Cell; PEM fuel cell; PV;
   Resilience; Standalone Microgrid
ID MICROBIAL ELECTROLYSIS CELLS; FUEL-CELL; BIOHYDROGEN PRODUCTION;
   HYDROGEN-PRODUCTION; SYSTEMS
AB This paper presents the design and implementation of an innovative standalone AC/DC microgrid configuration with focus on electricity water nexus. The proposed configuration includes photovoltaic (PV) generator, hybrid fuel cell system, storage system, and both DC and AC loads. One of the most important advantages of this microgrid is waste water treatment which enhances the microgrid resilience during natural/climate disasters or in remote areas. Purified water is produced by Microbial Electrolysis Cell (MEC) which also generate cheap and sustainable Hydrogen as a viable fuel for Proton Exchange Membrane Fuel Cell (PEM fuel cell) with considerable power density. A dynamic control strategy is also suggested to ensure optimal power management during microgrid stand-alone operation. To verify the proposed configuration and control strategy, the AC/DC microgrid is modeled and simulated in MATLAB/Simulink and the system power balance behavior during different scenarios is evaluated. A real-time Hardware-In-The-Loop (HIL) based experimental setup with physical power component and LabVIEW-based control system is designed and tested with the same scenarios to confirm the simulation results. By considering the natural/climate disasters in the last decades and the availability of the vast waste water supplies in Southeast Texas, which is the target area of this paper, the proposed AC/DC microgrid is a viable choice to increase the power system resilience.
UT WOS:000441117600022
ER

PT J
AU Bahlouli, K
   Saray, RK
   Sarabchi, N
AF Bahlouli, K.
   Saray, R. Khoshbakhti
   Sarabchi, N.
TI Parametric investigation and thermo-economic multi-objective
   optimization of an ammonia-water power/cooling cycle coupled with an
   HCCI (homogeneous charge compression ignition) engine
DE Economic analysis; Exergy efficiency; Trigeneration; Ammonia-water cycle
ID WASTE HEAT-RECOVERY; MODULAR HELIUM REACTOR; ORGANIC RANKINE CYCLES;
   EXERGOENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSES; THERMODYNAMIC PROPERTIES; EXERGOECONOMIC
   ANALYSIS; POWER-PLANTS; PRIME MOVERS; SYSTEM; TRIGENERATION
AB A parametric study and multi-objective optimization strategy are performed for a bottoming cycle of a trigeneration system with an HCCI (homogeneous charge compression ignition) engine as prime mover. To assess the influences of decision parameters on the performance and total cost of cycle, a parametric investigation is conducted. Two different multi-objective optimization scenarios are carried out to determine the best design parameters. For the first scenario, the objective functions which are utilized in the optimization study are exergy efficiency and the sum of the unit costs of the system products. The system cost criteria is minimized while the cycle exergy efficiency is maximized using an evolutionary algorithm. Exergy efficiency increases about 16.34% and reduction in the unit costs of the system products is about 10%. However, it is found that cooling capacity of the system is reduced to 83%. For the second scenario, the objective functions are considered to be the sum of the unit costs of the system products, net power generation, and exergy flow rate of refrigeration output. Employing the second scenario improved both power generation and cooling capacity of the system. The increase in exergy efficiency is 5.61%. These are achieved with even a slight reduction in the system cost criteria. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000356986300061
ER

PT J
AU Maw, A
   Adepu, S
   Mathur, A
AF Maw, Aung
   Adepu, Sridhar
   Mathur, Aditya
TI ICS-BlockOpS: Blockchain for operational data security in industrial
   control system
DE Critical infrastructure; Industrial control system; Cyber-physical
   systems; Cyber attacks; SCADA systems; Operational data; Historian
   security; Blockchain
AB Industrial Control Systems (ICS) are the backbone of critical infrastructure found in power, water, manufacturing and other industries. An ICS controls a physical plant through the use of sensors and actuators. A Historian sits on a plant network and receives, parses, and saves data and commands transmitted over the network, across the Programmable Logic Controllers (PLCs), sensors and actuators. This data has at least two uses. One use is to check for any process anomalies that may occur due to component failures and cyber attacks. The other use of this data, and the focus of this work, is to serve as critical input to off-line activities such as forensic analysis. A cyber attack on the Historian could jeopardize any forensic analysis be it for maintenance, or discovering an attack trail. In this work, a novel architecture, named ICS-BlockOpS, is proposed to secure plant operational data recorded in the Historian. ICS-BlockOpS is designed to enhance data security along two dimensions: immutability and redundancy. An integrity checking mechanism, in combination with blockchain, is used to ensure data integrity. Data redundancy is achieved by applying an efficient replication mechanism and enables data recovery after an attack. A prototype implementation of ICS-BlockOpS uses Ethereum blockchain in the local network as part of the tamper proofing mechanism. The implementation is in an operational six-stage water treatment plant. The underlying design ideas are generic and could be applied to other ICS as well. (C) 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000490750700007
ER

PT C
AU Abebe, YA
   Pregnolato, M
   Jonkman, BN
AF Abebe, Yared A.
   Pregnolato, Maria
   Jonkman, Bas N.
BE Law, AWK
   Er, JW
TI A REVIEW ABOUT FLOOD PREPAREDNESS OF HEALTHCARE FACILITIES
DE flood; preparedness; healthcare; risk; management
ID HURRICANE KATRINA; DISASTER; LESSONS
AB Hydrometeorological hazards, especially floods and cyclones, present considerable risks to public health, leading to fatalities, physical damage to healthcare facilities (HCFs), and major disruptions in healthcare delivery. This study undertook a systematic review of academic literature to explore both the direct and indirect effects of flooding on HCFs, along with the risk management approaches employed to mitigate these impacts. We conducted searches across four major databases ( MEDLINE, Embase, Web of Science, and Scopus) for English-language publications, using keywords related to floods, cyclones, healthcare facility types, and disaster risk reduction. The review was conducted according to the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines. We screened 7500 records, ultimately selecting 74 studies that met the inclusion criteria. Roughly 76% of the selected studies focused on cyclone-induced flooding and were mostly based in the United States. Hospitals emerged as the most frequently studied HCF type (n = 54), followed by long-term care facilities (n = 11). A prevalent issue reported was basement flooding, which affected critical systems such as equipment storage, medical supplies, and backup power. Disruptions to electricity and water services also posed severe operational challenges. While more than two-thirds of the studies referenced patient evacuation procedures, relatively few reported the use of structural mitigation strategies. Over one-third mentioned the presence of emergency preparedness plans. However, the review uncovered a lack of consistency in the preparedness levels among HCFs. To improve resilience, the main policy recommendation is to develop standardized guidelines and strengthen oversight of preparedness planning.
UT WOS:001747185700123
ER

PT J
AU Zhang, XY
   Su, JQ
   Chu, XL
   Wang, XY
AF Zhang, Xinyu
   Su, Jianqing
   Chu, Xiuling
   Wang, Xiaoya
TI A Green Method of Extracting and Recovering Flavonoids from
   Acanthopanax senticosus Using Deep Eutectic Solvents
DE deep eutectic solvent; Acanthopanax senticosus; flavonoids; extraction;
   macroporous resins; recycle
ID IONIC LIQUIDS; MEDIA; ADSORPTION; GLYCOSIDES; PHENOLICS; VISCOSITY;
   WATER
AB In recent years, green extraction of bioactive compounds from herbal medicines has generated widespread interest. Deep eutectic solvents (DES) have widely replaced traditional organic solvents in the extraction process. In this study, the efficiencies of eight DESs in extracting flavonoids from Acanthopanax senticosus (AS) were compared. Response surface methodology (RSM) was employed to optimize the independent variable including ultrasonic power, water content, solid-liquid ratio, extraction temperature, and extraction time. DES composed of glycerol and levulinic acid (1:1) was chosen as the most suitable extraction medium. Optimal conditions were ultrasonic power of 500 W, water content of 28%, solid-liquid ratio of 1:18 g center dot mL(-1), extraction temperature of 55 degrees C, and extraction time of 73 min. The extraction yield of total flavonoids reached 23.928 +/- 0.071 mg center dot g(-1), which was 40.7% higher compared with ultrasonic-assisted ethanol extraction. Macroporous resin (D-101, HPD-600, S-8 and AB-8) was used to recover flavonoids from extracts. The AB-8 resin showed higher adsorption/desorption performance, with a recovery rate of total flavonoids of up to 71.56 +/- 0.256%. In addition, DES solvent could efficiently be reused twice. In summary, ultrasonic-assisted DES combined with the macroporous resin enrichment method is exceptionally effective in recovering flavonoids from AS, and provides a promising environmentally friendly and recyclable strategy for flavonoid extraction from natural plant sources.
UT WOS:000755073900001
ER

PT J
AU Godart, P
   Hart, D
AF Godart, Peter
   Hart, Douglas
TI Aluminum-powered climate change resiliency: From aluminum debris to and
   clean water
DE Waste-to-energy; Disaster relief; Activated aluminum; Hydrogen
   generation; Desalination; Reverse osmosis
ID SEA-LEVEL RISE; HYDROGEN; DISTILLATION; ACTIVATION; EFFICIENCY; BENEFITS
AB This paper presents a novel ecosystem for converting aluminum debris from a natural disaster to a stable water reactive fuel that can be used to generate electricity and power emergency desalination. Bulk aluminum can be made water-reactive via a minimal surface treatment of gallium and indium, which works to passivate the oxide layer that would otherwise inhibit the reaction. With this oxide layer disrupted, the underlying bulk aluminum is able to react exothermically with water to produce hydrogen gas and aluminum oxyhydroxide (AlO(OH)) at high levels of reaction completion (> 95%). The gallium and indium, which are not consumed in the initial reaction, can be recycled to produce more fuel. Several systems for converting the hydrogen product of this reaction to electricity are reviewed here, as well as a device capable of desalinating seawater using the thermal energy released in the aluminum-water reaction to drive a reverse osmosis process. Finally, a new economics analysis of the value of the electricity, water, and AlO(OH) outputs of this system was performed for 10 different countries and territories. In each case this value is shown to outweigh the scrap price of aluminum by up to 600%, providing added economic incentive for utilizing this aluminum treatment process as a means of post-disaster cleanup and subsequent disaster preparedness.
UT WOS:000565601600014
ER

PT J
AU Hallegatte, S
AF Hallegatte, Stephane
TI Modeling the Role of Inventories and Heterogeneity in the Assessment of
   the Economic Costs of Natural Disasters
DE Economic impacts; input-output model; natural disasters; reconstruction
ID INPUT-OUTPUT MODEL; CLIMATE-CHANGE; RISK; IMPACT; INOPERABILITY;
   RESILIENCE; EARTHQUAKE
AB Estimates of the cost of potential disasters, including indirect economic consequences, are an important input in the design of risk management strategies. The adaptive regional input-output (ARIO) inventory model is a tool to assess indirect disaster losses and to analyze their drivers. It is based on an input-output structure, but it also (i) explicitly represents production bottlenecks and input scarcity and (ii) introduces inventories as an additional flexibility in the production system. This modeling strategy distinguishes between (i) essential supplies that cannot be stocked (e.g., electricity, water) and whose scarcity can paralyze all economic activity; (ii) essential supplies that can be stocked at least temporarily (e.g., steel, chemicals), whose scarcity creates problems only over the medium term; and (iii) supplies that are not essential in the production process, whose scarcity is problematic only over the long run and are therefore easy to replace with imports. The model is applied to the landfall of Hurricane Katrina in Louisiana and identifies two periods in the disaster aftermath: (1) the first year, during which production bottlenecks are responsible for large output losses; (2) the rest of the reconstruction period, during which bottlenecks are inexistent and output losses lower. This analysis also suggests important research questions and policy options to mitigate disaster-related output losses.
UT WOS:000329544800001
ER

PT J
AU Colón-López, V
   Sanchez-Cabrera, Y
   Soto-Salgado, M
   Ortiz-Ortiz, KJ
   Quast, T
   Fernandez, ME
AF Colon-Lopez, Vivian
   Sanchez-Cabrera, Yara
   Soto-Salgado, Marievelisse
   Ortiz-Ortiz, Karen J.
   Quast, Troy
   Fernandez, Maria E.
TI 'More stressful than cancer': treatment experiences lived during
   Hurricane Maria among breast and colorectal cancer patients in Puerto
   Rico
DE Puerto Rico; Colorectal and breast cancer patients; Health services;
   Natural disasters; Emergency preparedness; Hurricane Mar & iacute;a;
   Qualitative study
ID RESILIENCE; DISASTERS; CARE
AB BackgroundIn September 2017, Hurricane Maria, a Category 4 storm, struck Puerto Rico, causing widespread structural damage, prolonged power outages, and severe flooding. The devastation profoundly affected the island's infrastructure and population. Patients with chronic diseases, particularly cancer, face distinct challenges and healthcare needs during and after disasters. This study examined and documented the narratives of breast and colorectal cancer patients regarding their experiences with cancer care and treatment disruptions during Hurricanes Irma and Maria in Puerto Rico diagnosed six months before September 2017.MethodsA total of three focus groups were conducted in San Juan and Ponce. Colorectal and breast cancer patients were recruited in collaboration with the Puerto Rico Central Cancer Registry. The interviews were coded using a grounded theory approach.Results40% of the participants interviewed reported that their treatment was interrupted due to hurricane Maria. Focus groups narratives indicated that the most prevalent themes were (a) barriers and facilitators related to their cancer treatment, (b) experiences in treatment, and (c) stressors related to the hurricane. Participants discussed their struggles regarding their treatment experience, access to care during and after the hurricane and describe household challenges due to lack of electricity and water, which deter their intention to continue their treatment.ConclusionStressors directly linked with the disaster were most challenging to cope with. Our data highlights the impending need to address cancer patients in future emergency plans to minimize the delay in continuing cancer care.
UT WOS:001485488900004
ER

PT J
AU Yang, SF
   Fang, F
   Chen, YP
   Wu, JF
   Zhang, SB
AF Yang, Shifan
   Fang, Fang
   Chen, Yaping
   Wu, Jiafeng
   Zhang, Shaobo
TI Study on approaches of extending refrigeration capacity range of
   parallel power/refrigeration cogeneration Kalina cycle system
DE Ammonia-water mixture; Kalina cycle; Power; refrigeration cogeneration
   cycle; Air conditioning; Distributed energy system
ID WATER POWER CYCLE; THERMODYNAMIC ANALYSIS; INTEGRATED-SYSTEM; EXERGY
   ANALYSIS; ENERGY; OPTIMIZATION; PERFORMANCE; GENERATION; HEAT
AB A parallel power/refrigeration cogeneration Kalina cycle (PPR-KC) system with adjustable refrigeration/power ratio that developed on the basis of the triple-pressure Kalina cycle system was analyzed. The PPR-KC system can produce refrigeration with temperature ranging in either air conditioning or ice making by switching the exhaust refrigerant vapor to the mid-pressure absorber or to the low-pressure one. The influences of the dilute solution from generator to the destination of either mid-pressure absorber (plan A) or low-pressure absorber (plan B) via recuperators on the performances of the PPR-KC system for air conditioning were investigated. The results show that the PPR-KC system matches well the heat source in cascade arranged boiler and generator thus showing excellent thermal performance by optimizing the solution concentrations, boiler superheat and other parameters. Under the given temperatures of heat source 400 degrees C and cooling water 30 degrees C respectively, the variation trends of the cycle parameters and performances of both plan A and plan B are presented. The power recovery efficiency of plan B is about 1.6% higher than that of plan A. When boiler bubble point temperature difference increases from 20 K to 60 K the refrigeration/power ratio of plan B climbs from 0.475 to 1.192. (c) 2021 Elsevier Ltd and IIR. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000720984300010
ER

PT J
AU Zhang, QW
   Zhang, H
   Liu, XR
   Zhang, AP
   Xiao, MJ
   Yang, ZL
AF Zhang, Qingwen
   Zhang, Hui
   Liu, Xingren
   Zhang, Aiping
   Xiao, Meijia
   Yang, Zhengli
TI Variation and driving factors of nitrous oxide emissions from irrigated
   paddy field in the arid and semiarid region
DE N2O emission; Irrigated paddy field; Flood irrigation;
   Anthropogenic-alluvial alkaline soil
ID DIRECT N2O EMISSIONS; RICE-GROWING-SEASON; FERTILIZER; ECOSYSTEM;
   METHANE; ISLAND; CHINA; WATER; CH4
AB Agricultural pollution source as Nitrous oxide (N2O) emission from irrigated paddy field as affected by overuse of chemical fertilizer application and flooding irrigation is the primary anthropogenic source of nitrogen (N) losses in the Ningxia irrigation district. The emissions variation and driving factors of N2O emission in the large irrigation districts needs much more investigation. A static chamber-gas chromatograph method was conducted to quantify N losses from a paddy field in Lingwu Farm during 2009-2010. Three nitrogen (N) treatments were conducted, including the conventional N application rate of 300 kg ha(-1) (N300), the reducing N application rate of 240 kg ha(-1) (N240) and control plot (NO). The N2O emissions due to combined effects of the fertilizer application and flood irrigation after winter dry follow was 2.86-3.27 kg ha(-1) in N300. The flood irrigation at the beginning of the rice transplanting promotes N2O emissions due to nitrification-denitrification of a richer N source provided by the N fertilizer accumulation of soil NH4+ and NO3-. During the rice growth stage when the paddy field was submerged, N2O emission was very low while intermittent irrigation before tillering and the maturation stages, frequent alteration of dry and wet soil condition enhance N2O emission. The reducing N fertilizer application improved the recovery rate in rice and resulted in a less N2O emission from irrigated paddy field in the arid and semiarid region while keeping the rice yield. (C) 2018 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation and China Water and Power Press. Production and Hosting by Elsevier B.V.
UT WOS:000438879500006
ER

PT J
AU Comodi, G
   Cioccolanti, L
   Palpacelli, S
   Tazioli, A
   Nanni, T
AF Comodi, Gabriele
   Cioccolanti, Luca
   Palpacelli, Stefano
   Tazioli, Alberto
   Nanni, Torquato
TI Distributed generation and water production: A study for a region in
   central Italy
DE Distributed generation; Cogeneration; Groundwater quality; Thermal
   desalination; Reverse osmosis
AB This study examines the use of distributed power plants coupled to desalination systems to achieve combined production of electrical energy and of water for drinking and similar purposes in Marches, an Adriatic region in central Italy. To reduce Marches' large electricity deficit, the regional government has drawn up an environmental and energy plan promoting distributed generation through power plants built right where the electricity is consumed. At the same time, the region's abundant water resources are increasingly threatened by aquifer pollution, due particularly to fertilizers and to the phenomenon of saltwater intrusion near the coast. Distributed electrical energy generation combined with water production can help meet the goal of reducing the electrical deficit while at the same time improving ground-water quality and reducing the hydrogeological risk. The solution is also efficient, since the more the useful heat recovered by the energy system, the higher its global efficiency. Furthermore, coupling power plants to desalination units is also an excellent application of cogeneration systems, allowing useful recovery of thermal energy in the summer. The study examines different sized plants for the distributed generation of water and power in Marches, from small units to thermal desalination systems that can be coupled to existing power plants. It shows that although endowing existing large power plants with MED (multiple effect distillation) units makes it possible to meet 58% of the freshwater demand in Marches, it further increases the electricity deficit, whereas coupling small or medium-sized distributed power plants to reverse osmosis systems allows meeting 75% of the demand for freshwater and reduces the electrical energy demand by up to 50% in the more energy-intensive districts.
UT WOS:000295919200026
ER

PT J
AU Safder, U
   Dereli, RK
AF Safder, Usman
   Dereli, Recep Kaan
TI Multi-level optimisation of the integrated renewable energy system
   within a water-exergy-hydrogen nexus concept
DE Climate change mitigation; Multi-level optimization; Renewable system;
   Water-Exergy; Hydrogen-exergy; Quasi-steady simulation
ID PARABOLIC TROUGH; POLYGENERATION SYSTEM; COGENERATION SYSTEM; COLLECTOR
AB An integrated solar-driven renewable energy system for the simultaneous production of electricity, freshwater, and green hydrogen is proposed and systematically analysed within a water-exergy-hydrogen (WExH) nexus framework. The configuration couples a parabolic trough solar collector (PTSC) with a high-pressure steam turbine-assisted multi-effect desalination (MED) unit, an organic Rankine cycle (ORC) for bottoming power recovery, and a proton exchange membrane electrolyzer (PEME) for hydrogen generation. A comprehensive thermodynamic, exergy, and techno-economic model is developed and implemented in a quasi-steady framework, evaluated at monthly-representative operating points, to capture seasonal solar variability and the operational interactions among subsystems. To address the complexity of competing performance objectives, a hierarchical multi-level optimisation strategy is employed, targeting system-level exergy performance, WExH nexus indicators, and economic metrics, including levelized costs of electricity, water, and hydrogen. The results reveal that the parabolic trough solar collector is the dominant source of overall exergy destruction (50.2%), owing to the large temperature disequilibrium between the solar source and the receiver, followed by the steam generator (16.7%) and the MED unit (10.1%). A system-level exergy balance yields an overall exergetic efficiency of 38.1% at the design point, under hierarchical multi-objective optimisation this rises to 41.2%, while the levelized cost of hydrogen is reduced by 32% (to 6.76 & euro;/kg) and the levelized cost of water by 40% (to 0.56 & euro;/m3). A case study based on Dublin's solar conditions demonstrates that the proposed system remains technically feasible as a multi-product configuration even under a low and strongly seasonal solar resource, delivering 3,872 MWh of electricity, 14.6 t of hydrogen, and 56,313 m3 of freshwater annually, supporting its relevance for integrated renewable energy planning. The novelty of this work lies in the combined implementation of an explicit WExH nexus formulation with a hierarchical multi-level optimisation framework under time-varying solar conditions, enabling a structured quantification of thermodynamic, resource, and economic trade-offs that cannot be captured using conventional steady-state or single-level optimisation approaches.
UT WOS:001815069000002
ER

PT J
AU Salehi, S
   Javanfam, F
AF Salehi, S.
   Javanfam, F.
TI Investigation of a novel solar-assisted multigeneration system
   comprising water desalination systems, an absorption refrigeration
   system, a single-effect absorption heat transformer and two organic
   Rankine cycles
DE Absorption refrigeration; Single-effect absorption heat transformer;
   Humidification-dehumidification desalination; system; Organic Rankine
   cycle
ID HUMIDIFICATION-DEHUMIDIFICATION DESALINATION; MULTIOBJECTIVE
   OPTIMIZATION; 3-OBJECTIVE OPTIMIZATION; EXERGOECONOMIC ANALYSIS; POWER;
   AIR; PERFORMANCE; DRIVEN
AB A novel solar-assisted multigeneration system is proposed and examined from a thermodynamic perspective, designed to simultaneously produce electricity, distilled water, and refrigeration. The system utilizes solar energy through an absorption refrigeration generator and the heat recovery mechanism of an organic Rankine cycle (ORC). The absorption refrigeration system generates both refrigeration and the necessary heat for a single-effect absorption heat transformer, which in turn produces distilled water and power via an evaporative desalination system and an ORC, respectively. Additionally, two distinct humidification-dehumidification (HDH) desalination systems are integrated to enhance freshwater production. The study evaluates the impact of various operational conditions on key performance parameters, including the coefficient of performance (COP), exergy coefficient of performance (ECOP), simple payback period (SPP), refrigeration capacity, total generated power, and distilled water production. Pareto frontiers are graphically constructed to identify optimal points and their corresponding parameter values. The results show that, with a total solar heat input of 250 kW, the system can generate 21.46 kW of electricity, 71.02 kW of refrigeration, and 100.65 g per second of distilled water. The optimal performance parameters are determined to be a COP of 2.13, an ECOP of 0.19, an SPP of 3.34 years, a power output of 16.77 kW, distilled water production of 99.84 g per second, and a refrigeration capacity of 74.44 kW.
UT WOS:001308102400001
ER

PT J
AU Ghorbani, B
   Mahyari, KB
   Mehrpooya, M
   Hamedi, MH
AF Ghorbani, Bahram
   Mahyari, Kimiya Borzoo
   Mehrpooya, Mehdi
   Hamedi, Mohammad-Hossein
TI Introducing a hybrid renewable energy system for production of power and
   fresh water using parabolic trough solar collectors and LNG cold energy
   recovery
DE Energy integration; Multi effect desalination; Organic rankine cycle;
   Re-gasification operation; Parabolic trough solar collectors; Exergy and
   economic analysis
ID LIQUEFIED NATURAL-GAS; ORGANIC RANKINE-CYCLE; DISH-STIRLING ENGINE;
   CARBONATE FUEL-CELL; AIR SEPARATION UNIT; ABSORPTION-REFRIGERATION;
   THERMOECONOMIC ANALYSIS; THERMODYNAMIC ANALYSIS; ECONOMIC OPTIMIZATION;
   DESALINATION UNIT
AB In order to solve the water and energy crisis problem, the thermal water desalination and parabolic trough solar collectors are used at the cogeneration plants. In this paper, an integrated structure for cogeneration of fresh water and power has been developed using a multi-stage thermal water desalination system and organic Rankine cycle. In order to supply the input heat, an integrated structure of parabolic trough solar collectors, and to supply the condenser cooling of organic Rankine cycle, the re-gasification operations have been used. This integrated structure is capable of fresh water generation of 3628 kgmol/h and electrical power of 459.9 MW. In this integrated structure, the efficiency of the organic Rankine cycle power plant and gain output ratio of the multi effect desalination system is 12.47% and 2.918, respectively. Exergy analysis has been used to examine the second law of thermodynamics and the quality of the integrated structure. The total exergy efficiency of the integrated structure is 87.11%, and also, the highest share of equipment exergy destruction is related to the heat exchangers and collectors by 50.23% and 38.18%, respectively. In order to simulate the dynamics of the integrated structure, according to the input climatic information of the studied location in Tehran, Iran. Furthermore, decisions are made upon the sensitivity analysis on economic important indicators within an integrated structure. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000510524900101
ER

PT C
AU Liner, B
   Stacklin, C
AF Liner, Barry
   Stacklin, Christopher
GP ASME
TI DRIVING WATER AND WASTEWATER UTILITIES TO MORE SUSTAINABLE ENERGY
   MANAGEMENT
AB The Water Environment Federation (WEF) and industry leaders have identified the need for an energy roadmap to guide utilities of all sizes down the road to overall sustainable energy management through increased renewable energy production and energy conservation. This roadmap leverages a framework developed by the electric power sector. Known as the The Smart Grid Maturity Model (SGMM), the framework moved the industry toward "Smart Grid" technology. The basis of the Energy Roadmap originated at a workshop of water and power industry leaders convened by WEF in North Carolina in March 2012. Case studies were analyzed from successful utilities in Austria, Holland, Australia, and the United States. High level, strategic best practices were identified and organized into topic areas, which define the level of progression (enable, integrate and optimize) towards achieving energy sustainability.
   As a living document, the roadmap is always under review by dedicated groups within the industry. A number of utilities worldwide have already taken the leap and begun this transformation towards resource recovery and many more are peering over the edge. The WEF Energy Roadmap is intended to guide utilities of all sizes as they progress toward becoming treatment plants of the future. While it is not practical for all wastewater treatment plants to become energy positive or neutral, all can take steps towards increasing energy sustainability.
   A key component of the WEF Energy Roadmap is collaboration between water/wastewater utilities and electric utilities. This paper focuses on lessons learned and case studies about energy and water utilities working together to address energy-water nexus challenges. This paper examines perspectives both from energy use at water sector facilities and water use at energy sector facilities.
UT WOS:000349875400044
ER

PT J
AU Bandini, S
   Nataloni, L
AF Bandini, Serena
   Nataloni, Luigi
TI Nanofiltration for dextrose recovery from crystallization mother
   liquors: A feasibility study
DE Nanofiltration; Dextrose; Separation; Polyamide membranes; Module
   performances
ID OLIGOSACCHARIDES; PURIFICATION; SEPARATION; MEMBRANES; GLUCOSE; XYLOSE;
   FRACTIONATION; REJECTION; OPERATION; DESIGN
AB A wide experimentation was carried out to test performances of industrial NF modules for dextrose (DX) recovery from crystallization mother liquors, coming from dextrose manufacturing by saccharification of starch hydrolizates. Real solutions were processed containing total Dry Substance (DS) in the range from 17 to 43 wt% and DX content close to 80-83%; impurities being mainly maltose and other sugars with higher degree of polymerization.
   Aim of the work was to achieve at least a DX purity of 95% in correspondence with average transmembrane fluxes higher than 4 dm(3)/(hm(2)).
   Four commercial spiral wound modules with polyamide membranes were tested, manufactured by KOCH-Membrane Systems and by GE Power&Water (well-known as DESAL membrane products). Module performances were measured at temperatures from 30 to 50 degrees C, at pressures from 15 to 30 bar.
   Nanofiltration is confirmed as a feasible technique to get preferential permeation of dextrose.
   For all the modules tested many analogies were observed in their behavior as a function of operative conditions. In spite of the complexity of the solutions investigated, module performances can be easily described by using few simple quantities (DS wt%, DX purity, total flux, DX rejection and Impurities Rejection). DX purity in the Permeate is strictly dependent on the DX purity in the module feed and on the total volume flux.
   Results give a general indication about the experimentation protocol to be performed in order to obtain basic data useful both to test the process feasibility and to scale-up the process.
   Membranes tested showed different separation efficiencies; only the module GE-DL4040C1025 fitted the industrial requirements for the process application. Modules GE-DL can be used with confidence at 50 degrees C and 30 bar, in a range of feed flow rates from 2300 to 3600 L/h, achieving DX purity in the Permeate higher than 97%; correspondingly, the NF plant can be designed to work with a DS content in the feed stream from 22 wt% to 35 wt%, obtaining total fluxes from 16 to 6 dm(3)/(hm(2)) and a DS content in the Permeate from 11.5 wt% to 22.5 wt%, correspondingly. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000348555700007
ER

PT J
AU Wang, QF
   Jin, HJ
   Yuan, ZQ
   Yang, CS
AF Wang, Qingfeng
   Jin, Huijun
   Yuan, Ziqiang
   Yang, Chengsong
TI Synergetic variations of active layer soil water and salt in a
   permafrost-affected meadow in the headwater area of the Yellow River,
   northeastern Qinghai-Tibet plateau
DE Freeze and thaw process; Active layer; Soil water; Bulk electrical
   conductivity; Yellow river
ID HYDROLOGICAL PROCESSES; SUBSURFACE DRAINAGE; ALPINE ECOSYSTEMS; FROZEN
   SOILS; HEIHE RIVER; VEGETATION; DYNAMICS; REGION; BASIN; SNOW
AB The coupling effects and mechanisms of water, heat, and salt in frozen soils are considered to be one of the core scientific issues in frozen soil studies. This study was based on in situ observation data of active layer soil volumetric water content (VWC), temperature, and bulk electrical conductivity (EC) obtained at an alpine meadow site from October 2016 to November 2019. The site is located in the headwater area of the Yellow River (HAYR). We analyzed the synergetic variations of active layer soil VWC, temperature, and bulk EC during the freeze and thaw processes and discussed the underlying mechanisms. When the thaw process occurred from 10 to 80 cm depths, the VWC and bulk EC at a 10 cm depth showed synchronous high-frequency fluctuations and both increased linearly. The linear decreasing rate of the VWC (bulk EC) at an 80 cm depth in the freeze depths between 0 and 40 cm was 2 (1.6-2.3) times that of the VWC (bulk EC) at an 80 cm depth in the freeze depths occurring 0-10 cm. As soil temperature decreased in the frozen layer, unfrozen water content (bulk EC) decreased nonlinearly along with the absolute value of soil temperature (vertical bar T vertical bar), following a power (logarithmic) function. This study provided data that partly elucidate the interactions among permafrost, meadow, and ecohydrological processes in the HAYR. Also, our results can be used as a scientific basis for decision making on the protection and restoration of alpine grasslands, as well as for soil salinization studies. (C) 2021 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd.
UT WOS:000782913000011
ER

PT J
AU Liu, L
   Xiong, DH
   Zhang, BJ
   Yang, D
   Yuan, Y
   Zhang, BY
   Zhang, WD
   Shi, LT
   Wang, XD
AF Liu, Lin
   Xiong, Donghong
   Zhang, Baojun
   Yang, Dan
   Yuan, Yong
   Zhang, Binyan
   Zhang, Wenduo
   Shi, Liangtao
   Wang, Xiaodan
TI How does shrub stem coverage affect the hydraulic properties of
   concentrated flow and sediment yield during gully bed erosion?
DE Vegetation restoration; Vegetation stem; Gully erosion; Concentrated
   flow; Sediment yield
ID DRY-HOT VALLEY; SURFACE-ROUGHNESS; SOIL DETACHMENT; VEGETATION; RUNOFF;
   PLANT; IMPACTS; REGION; DIAMETER; BARRIERS
AB Vegetation plays a critical role in influencing runoff processes and soil loss during gully bed erosion. However, it is still unclear how the stem coverage affects gully bed erosion processes by altering the runoff hydraulics and soil sedimentation. A series of in situ scouring experiments were conducted to investigate the influence of shrub stem coverage on the concentrated flow pathway characteristics, hydrodynamic parameters, and sediment concentration during gully bed erosion processes. The Flow pathway characteristics expressed by the Number of flow pathways (FN), total Flow path Width (FW), Tortuosity Ratio (TR), and Fractal Dimension (FD) were quantified by analyzing photographs of the gully bed surface taken during experimental periods. Structural equation model was used to analyze the comprehensive effect of stem coverage on hydraulic erosion of gully beds. The results showed that FN, FW, and TR increased linearly, and FD increased exponentially as stem coverage increased. Compared with the bare gully bed, the flow velocity and shear stress of gully beds with shrub stem covers decreased by 17.47%-25.19% and 4.75%-11.42%, respectively, while the Darcy-Weisbach friction factor increased by 35.94%-68.71%. The sediment concentration of stem-covered gully beds decreased by 11.82%-26.93%. The increasing stem coverage promoted concentrated flow branching and significantly increased FW, which in turn altered hydraulic parameters, particularly reducing flow velocity, and ultimately reducing sediment concentrations indirectly. These results contribute to partially explaining the differences in flow hydraulics and soil loss of vegetated gully beds in previous studies that failed to account for changes in flow pathways. (c) 2025 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY- NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
UT WOS:001458913100001
ER

PT J
AU Khan, S
   Bartley, R
   Kinsey-Henderson, A
   Hawdon, A
AF Khan, Sana
   Bartley, Rebecca
   Kinsey-Henderson, Anne
   Hawdon, Aaron
TI Assessing gully erosion and rehabilitation using multi temporal LiDAR
   DEMs: Case study from the Great Barrier Reef catchments, Australia
DE Digital elevation models; (dis)connectivity; Restoration; Geomorphic
   change detection; Geomorphic effectiveness; GIS
ID GRAVEL-BED; MORPHOLOGICAL CHANGE; DEPOSITION VOLUMES; FINE SEDIMENT;
   IMPACTS; RIVER; QUEENSLAND; AIRBORNE; INSIGHTS; MECHANISMS
AB Millions of dollars are being spent on gully rehabilitation to help reduce excess fine sediment delivery to the Great Barrier Reef (GBR). There is an urgent need for (i) prioritisation of active gullies for rehabili-tation and (ii) the development of methodologies to inform the effectiveness of remediation. In this study we analyse DEMs of Difference derived from 0.5 m resolution 2-3 year interval multi-temporal LiDAR data collected pre and post rehabilitation at three variable gully morphologies in the Burdekin catchment. Our analysis indicates that the highest annual average fine sediment erosion rates for the untreated control gullies occur at the linear gully (53.38 t ha-1 y-1) followed by linear-alluvial gully (34.24 t ha-1 y-1) and least at the alluvial gully (14.41 t ha-1 y-1). The proportional loss or export of fine sediment from the gullies in their un-treated condition ranges from-68 to 90% of what is eroded, and when the gullies are treated the proportion of fine sediment that is retained in the gully proportional to what is eroded increases to-60% at all sites. Without pre-treatment baseline erosion rates, and addi-tional post treatment LiDAR captures, it is difficult to quantify the treatment effectiveness. Our results offer insights in the erosion mechanisms within different geomorphic gully morphologies and rehabil-itation effects in these erosional landforms. This study provides crucial knowledge of gully dynamics that can be coupled with other lines of evidence for better prioritisation of rehabilitation in the GBR catchments. (c) 2023 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
UT WOS:001150362900001
ER

PT J
AU Yan, R
   Zhang, XP
   Yan, SJ
   Chen, H
AF Yan, Rui
   Zhang, Xiaoping
   Yan, Shengjun
   Chen, Hao
TI Estimating soil erosion response to land use/cover change in a catchment
   of the Loess Plateau, China
DE Loess Plateau; Land usechanges; RUSLE; SEDD; Soil erosion
ID SEDIMENT YIELD; WATER EROSION; PRECIPITATION; COVER; RUSLE; AREA; GIS
AB The vegetation restoration project, named the Grain to Green Program, has been operating for more than ten years in the upper reaches of the Beiluo River basin, located in the Loess Plateau of China. It is significant to be able to estimate the success of preventing soil erosion. In this study, the Revised Universal Soil Loss Equation (RUSLE) and the Sediment Distributed Delivery (SEDD) model were used to assess the annual soil loss derived from water erosion. The results showed that the study area suffered from primary land use changes, with increasing grassland and forest and decreasing farmland from 1990 to 2010. Based on that, the average soil erosion modulus decreased from 18,189.72 t/(km(2) a) in 1990-7408.93 t/(km(2) a) in 2000 and 2857.76 t/(km(2) a) in 2010. Compared with 1990, the average soil erosion modulus decreased by 59.0% and 84.3% for 2000 and 2010, respectively. Benefiting from the increased vegetation coverage and improved ecological environment, the soil erosion in this study area clearly declined. This research also found that the distribution of the three years of soil erosion was similarly based on topographic factors. The soil erosion modulus varied with different land use types and decreased in the order of residential area > farmland > grassland > forest. The average soil erosion modulus gradually increased with the increase of the slope gradient, and 76.08% of the total soil erosion was concentrated in the region with a gradient more than 15 degrees. The soil erosion modulus also varied with slope aspects in the order of sunny slope > half-sunny slope > half-shady slope > shady slope. This research provides useful reference for soil and water conservation and utilization in this area and offers a technical basis for using the RUSLE to estimate soil erosion in the Loess Plateau of China. (C) 2018 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation and China Water and Power Press.
UT WOS:000430727100002
ER

PT J
AU Martón, I
   Martorell, P
   Mullor, R
   Sánchez, AI
   Martorell, S
AF Marton, I.
   Martorell, P.
   Mullor, R.
   Sanchez, A. I.
   Martorell, S.
TI Optimization of test and maintenance of ageing components consisting of
   multiple items and addressing effectiveness
DE Unavailability; Costs; Multi-objective optimization; Ageing; Multiple
   items; Imperfect maintenance; Testing intervals; Maintenance intervals
ID GENETIC ALGORITHM; MULTIOBJECTIVE OPTIMIZATION; TECHNICAL
   SPECIFICATIONS; OPTIMIZING SURVEILLANCE; DECISION-MAKING; REQUIREMENTS;
   SAFETY
AB There are many models in the literature that have been proposed in the last decades aimed at assessing the reliability, availability and maintainability (RAM) of safety equipment, many of them with a focus on their use to assess the risk level of a technological system or to search for appropriate design and/or surveillance and maintenance policies in order to assure that an optimum level of RAM of safety systems is kept during all the plant operational life. This paper proposes a new approach for RAM modelling that accounts for equipment ageing and maintenance and testing effectiveness of equipment consisting of multiple items in an integrated manner. This model is then used to perform the simultaneous optimization of testing and maintenance for ageing equipment consisting of multiple items. An example of application is provided, which considers a simplified High Pressure Injection System (HPIS) of a typical Power Water Reactor (PWR). Basically, this system consists of motor driven pumps (MDP) and motor operated valves (MOV), where both types of components consists of two items each. These components present different failure and cause modes and behaviours, and they also undertake complex test and maintenance activities depending on the item involved. The results of the example of application demonstrate that the optimization algorithm provide the best solutions when the optimization problem is formulated and solved considering full flexibility in the implementation of testing and maintenance activities taking part of such an integrated RAM model. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000379105900013
ER

PT J
AU Kumar, A
   Marwaha, S
   Manna, MS
   Marwaha, A
   Kumar, R
   Amir, M
   Bajaj, M
   Zaitsev, I
AF Kumar, Avinash
   Marwaha, Sanjay
   Manna, Manpreet Singh
   Marwaha, Anupma
   Kumar, Rajat
   Amir, Mohammad
   Bajaj, Mohit
   Zaitsev, Ievgen
TI Comparative analysis of brushless DC and switched reluctance motors for
   optimizing off-grid water pumping
DE Adaptive finite element analysis; Brushless-DC motors (BLDC); Low power
   motor design; Off-grid water pumping systems (OGWPS); Renewable energy;
   Switched reluctance motors (SRM)
ID INDUCTION-MOTOR
AB Off-grid water pumping systems (OGWPS) have become an increasingly popular area of research in the search for sustainable energy solutions. This paper presents a finite element method (FEM)-based design and analysis of Brushless-DC (BLDC) and Switched Reluctance Motors (SRM) designed for low-power water pumping applications. Utilizing adaptive finite element analysis (FEA), both motors were designed with identical ratings and design parameters to ensure a fair comparison. The design geometries adhere to the NEMA 42 standard. An (n + 1) switch converter topology was implemented to energize SRM phases, while a Cuk converter coupled with a three-phase voltage source inverter (VSI) was used to power the BLDC motor. The study provides a comprehensive comparative analysis of the torque profiles of both motor types under identical operating conditions. The BLDC motor achieved a maximum torque of 11.5 Nm and an efficiency of 91.9%, while the SRM demonstrated a maximum torque of 3.8 Nm and an efficiency of 94.6%. The torque ripple of the BLDC motor was significantly lower (0.73 pu) compared to the SRM (1.19 pu), indicating smoother operation. Simulation results obtained using advanced computational electromagnetic tools highlight the performance efficiencies and potential advantages of each motor type for off-grid water pumping systems. This research investigates the viability of both BLDC and SRM technologies in enhancing the efficiency and reliability of OGWPS, with the BLDC motor showing superior performance in terms of torque and operational smoothness. The simulation results of converter topologies used for respective motors have been further validated using experimentation on respective prototype motors.
UT WOS:001409657900035
ER

PT J
AU Vugrin, ED
   Verzi, SJ
   Finley, PD
   Turnquist, MA
   Griffin, AR
   Ricci, KA
   Wyte-Lake, T
AF Vugrin, Eric D.
   Verzi, Stephen J.
   Finley, Patrick D.
   Turnquist, Mark A.
   Griffin, Anne R.
   Ricci, Karen A.
   Wyte-Lake, Tamar
TI Modeling Hospitals' Adaptive Capacity during a Loss of Infrastructure
   Services
DE hospital; evacuation; resilience; infrastructure disruption; modeling
ID SEISMIC RESILIENCE; EVACUATION; DISASTER; SYSTEMS; KATRINA; IMPACT
AB Resilience in hospitals - their ability to withstand, adapt to, and rapidly recover from disruptive events - is vital to their role as part of national critical infrastructure. This paper presents a model to provide planning guidance to decision makers about how to make hospitals more resilient against possible disruption scenarios. This model represents a hospital's adaptive capacities that are leveraged to care for patients during loss of infrastructure services (power, water, etc.). The model is an optimization that reallocates and substitutes resources to keep patients in a high care state or allocates resources to allow evacuation if necessary. An illustrative example demonstrates how the model might be used in practice.
UT WOS:000353140700006
ER

PT J
AU Zhou, S
   Hosseini, T
   Zhang, XW
   Haque, N
   Zhang, L
AF Zhou, Song
   Hosseini, Tahereh
   Zhang, Xiwang
   Haque, Nawshad
   Zhang, Lian
TI Selective removal of sodium and calcium from low-rank coal - Process
   integration, simulation and techno-economic evaluation
DE Low-rank coal; Sodium and calcium removal; Process simulation;
   Techno-economic evaluation
ID ASH; COMBUSTION; DEPOSITION; SEAWATER; SYSTEMS; RO
AB This paper has addressed the techno-economic feasibility regarding the selective removal of sodium (Na) and calcium (Ca) from low-rank sub-bituminous coal, aiming to reduce the ash slagging and fouling propensity in the pulverized coal-fired boilers. Four novel process integrations were proposed and simulated in Aspen Plus. Both the novel counter-current three-stage water washing process and an acid-water two-stage washing process have proven to improve the ash fusion temperature satisfactorily, reducing the mass fraction of Na2O in ash from 4.32 wt% to 0.85 and 0.19 wt%, respectively. In addition, the use of acid-water washing removed 12.5% CaO and 19.5 wt% total ash. For the recycle and treatment of wastewater, the water gain is desirable for the use of an evaporator, owing to the dewatering of the initially high-moisture coal (25 wt%) in the centrifugal and the high water recovery rate from the evaporator. However, the good performance of evaporator was counteracted by the considerable capital cost caused by the huge heat transfer area requirement. Instead, the use of reverse osmosis (RO) resulted in a water loss up to 228.4 kg/t coal. Additionally, prior to the RO treatment unit, the recycle and reuse of the unsaturated water for maximum six times and four times for three-stage water washing and acid-water two-stage washing, respectively, was critical in reducing both the water and power consumption. The water consumption dropped to 38.1 kg/t coal and 48.1 kg/t coal for the three-stage water washing and acid water two-stage washing process, respectively. Both are remarkably lower than 85.0 kg-water/t black coal. In terms of the power consumption, it decreased to similar to 9.4 kWh/t coal for the three-stage water washing process and further down to 5.8 kWh/t for the acid-water washing case, which was even slightly lower than 6.3 kWh/t for the black coal. Furthermore, the integration of acid-water washing and RO was also demonstrated to be economically viable by its high NPV, IRR and short payback period. Sensitivity analysis indicate that, the original Na content in raw coal is the most influential variable on the water and power consumption of the overall process, followed by the initial moisture content in the raw coal. For a low-rank coal containing > 2150-2520 ppm Na and/or < 19 wt% moisture, the washing process proposed would turn economically unviable compared to the existing black coal washing process. A minimum selling price of 136 RMB/t (-32% deviation) was also necessary to keep both NPV and IRR positive as well as the payback period shorter than the project lifetime.
UT WOS:000425205300002
ER

PT J
AU de Chalendar, JA
   McMahon, C
   Valenzuela, LF
   Glynn, PW
   Benson, SM
AF de Chalendar, Jacques A.
   McMahon, Caitlin
   Valenzuela, Lucas Fuentes
   Glynn, Peter W.
   Benson, Sally M.
TI Unlocking demand response in commercial buildings: Empirical response of
   commercial buildings to daily cooling set point adjustments
DE Commercial building flexibility experiments; Data -driven building
   energy models; Thermal demand response; Temperature set point
   experiments; Commercial HVAC flexibility potential; Grid -interactive
   efficient buildings
ID HVAC; TEMPERATURE; SIMULATION; EFFICIENCY; SYSTEM
AB Buildings represent over half of global electricity demand. Cooling buildings already accounts for over 9% of global electricity demand and is expected to grow rapidly due to climate-change induced hot-spells and increasing prosperity in developing economies. In the US, commercial buildings represent 35% of nationwide electricity consumption. Increased electricity demand for cooling services will challenge already stressed power grids, particularly during times of peak demand. This work explores the flexibility and demand response potential of large Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC) systems based on an extensive set of measurements from six commercial buildings in a Warm-summer Mediterranean climate. Over a three-month summer period, zone-level temperature set points were adjusted daily in six commercial buildings to determine the effect on chilled water and electricity loads, as well as on zonelevel temperatures. External weather conditions were measured continuously during the testing period. The experimental data that were collected are published with this article. These experiments confirmed the potential to provide flexibility by reducing energy demands based on modest zone-level temperature set point adjustments. A two-degree Fahrenheit increase of the cooling set point resulted in a 13-28% reduction in daily building-level cooling loads on average for four office buildings and 3-4% for two laboratory buildings. The impact on electric loads was less than 2% (excluding for cooling water but including for ventilation). Zone-level temperature increases were measurable but temperatures remained within the target ranges. By collecting 385 experiment-days of experiment data, we were able to parameterize statistical models for the response of the buildings. These models provide statistical guarantees on the reliability of thermal demand response. This work provides a blueprint for constructing building and zone-level energy-response functions and highlights the value of testing buildings repeatedly and across a range of weather conditions. Providing statistical performance guarantees will be critical for widespread adoption of demand response technology to provide the flexibility needed to meet peak electricity demands. Combined with thermal storage, the daily flexibility studied here would also unlock daily and sub-daily electrical flexibility, and can also be integrated with sub-daily flexibility from building-level electrical loads.(c) 2022 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
UT WOS:000894967000001
ER

PT C
AU Storrick, GD
   Carelli, MD
AF Storrick, G. D.
   Carelli, M. D.
GP IEEE
TI The IRIS (International Reactor Innovative and Secure) and its Unique
   Advancement of the State-of the Art
DE Integral PWR; IRIS; Safety-by-Design (TM); Grid Appropriate Reactor
AB The International Reactor Innovative and Secure (IRIS) is an advanced, tight-water cooled reactor expected to be deployment-ready in 2015-2017. IRIS' power rating (1000 MWt or 335 MWe) is particular suitable for developing countries and emerging markets with limited electric grid size and/or limited financial resources. IRIS has excellent capability to satisfy the Global Nuclear Energy Partnership (GNEP) requirements for smaller-scale grid-appropriate reactors in the near term, And provides a viable bridge to long-term Generation IV reactors.
   IRIS features a simple integral design where all primary system components are located within a single pressure vessel, thus eliminating loop piping and the associated possibility of large break loss of coolant accident (LOCA). The result is a design that yields enhanced safety, security and reliability, along with competitive economics. Due to its characteristics, IRIS is ideal for co-generation applications. One example is for electricity combined with desalination and potable water production, which is of interest in several world regions. Another is for bio-fuel conversion such as ethanol production, where IRIS can supply the necessary steam, water, and electricity. We expect IRIS' economics to be competitive with other nuclear and non-nuclear energy sources. IRIS' modularity enables sequential construction of multiple units with gradual addition of new capacity to match the energy demand growth rate, as well as to optimize cash flow and significantly reduce required investment capital at risk.
   The IRIS development team is a strong international partner-ship led by Westinghouse. The team currently includes 18 organizations from nine countries (Brazil, Croatia, Italy, Japan, Lithuania, Mexico, Spain, UK, and USA). These organizations represent world-leading nuclear manufacturers, academic institutions, national laboratories and power producers. Universities are vibrant team members with well over one hundred students involved to-date, a majority of them having conducted graduate theses at the master or doctoral level.
   The IRIS program recently completed its research phase and entered its commercial development phase. BUS is currently in the pre-application licensing with the US NRC. The team is constructing an integral test facility in Italy to conduct a major testing program needed to support the application for Design Certification.
   This paper updates [1] and provides a top-level overview of the project status focusing on current activities and prospects for worldwide deployment of IRIS.
UT WOS:000264403803029
ER

PT C
AU Landegren, F
   Sulaman, SM
   Möller, P
   Höst, M
   Johansson, J
AF Landegren, F.
   Sulaman, S. M.
   Moller, P.
   Host, M.
   Johansson, J.
BE Walls, L
   Revie, M
   Bedford, T
TI A method for assessing resilience of socio-technical IT-systems
AB Modern society is increasingly dependent on IT-systems. Due to this dependence it is important that IT-networks are designed to be resilient, meaning that they will either maintain or quickly recover their functionality when exposed to strain. Simulation-based methods that consider supply network topology as well as system responsible for repairing supply network have previously been used and found to be beneficial for assessing resilience of electricity and water distribution systems. A method of this kind is here applied for IT-networks. In effect the IT-system is studied as a socio-technical system, here broadly understood as a system whose functionality is dependent on technical as well as organizational sub-systems. The aim of the present research is to test if such a method is applicable for assessing resilience of IT-systems, meaning that: 1) it is possible to use based on available data, in this case gathered mainly through interviews with focus groups, 2) the results are relevant for users/owners/maintainers. The method is tested in a case study on the IT-network of one department of Lund university as well as the university core network. Results show that the method is applicable for the studied IT-network and that we can obtain the resilience metrics sought for. It is found that the method can enable system owners to see if and for what levels of strain they are presently reaching their desired targets concerning system resilience. Concerning the relevance of the method, feedback from system experts indicates that the method might primarily be useful for IT-systems whose failure would 1) result in large economic losses (e.g. IT-system of major private companies) or 2) lead to loss of health or safety (e.g. IT-systems of governmental organizations and hospitals).
UT WOS:000414164700312
ER

PT J
AU Chang, HW
   Wan, ZM
   Zheng, Y
   Chen, X
   Shu, SM
   Tu, ZK
   Chan, SH
   Chen, R
   Wang, XD
AF Chang, Huawei
   Wan, Zhongmin
   Zheng, Yao
   Chen, Xi
   Shu, Shuiming
   Tu, Zhengkai
   Chan, Siew Hwa
   Chen, Rui
   Wang, Xiaodong
TI Energy- and exergy-based working fluid selection and performance
   analysis of a high-temperature PEMFC-based micro combined cooling
   heating and power system
DE Micro-CCHP; High-temperature PEMFC; Working fluid selection; Energy and
   exergy analysis; Organic Rankine Cycle; Vapor compression cycle
ID ORGANIC RANKINE-CYCLE; MEMBRANE FUEL-CELL; RESIDENTIAL APPLICATIONS;
   CCHP SYSTEMS; GAS TURBINE; CHP SYSTEMS; OPTIMIZATION; ORC; SOLAR;
   RECOVERY
AB A combined cooling heating and power (CCHP) system based on high-temperature proton exchange membrane fuel cell (PEMFC) is proposed. This CCHP system consists of a PEMFC subsystem, an organic Rankine cycle (ORC) subsystem and a vapor compression cycle (VCC) subsystem. The electric power of the CCHP system is 8 kW under normal operating conditions, the domestic hot water power is approximately 18 kW, and the cooling and heating capacities are 12.5 kW and 20 kW, respectively. Energy and exergy performance of the CCHP system are thoroughly analyzed for six organic working fluids using Matlab coupled with REFPROP. R601 is chosen as the working fluid for ORC subsystem based on energy and exergy analysis. The results show that the average coefficient of performance (COP) of the CCHP system is 1.19 in summer and 1.42 in winter, and the average exergy efficiencies are 46% and 47% under normal operating conditions. It can also be concluded that both the current density and operating temperature have significant effects on the energy performance of the CCHP system, while only the current density affects the exergy performance noticeably. The ambient temperature can affect both the energy and exergy performance of the CCHP system. This system has the advantages of high facility availability, high efficiency, high stability, low noise and low emission; it has a good prospect for residential applications. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000412866500033
ER

PT J
AU Lai, WH
   Nihill, J
   Lappas, P
   Kajtaz, M
   Akbarzadeh, A
   Date, A
AF Lai, Wai Hong
   Nihill, Jack
   Lappas, Petros
   Kajtaz, Mladenko
   Akbarzadeh, Aliakbar
   Date, Abhijit
TI A review of combined desalination and electrical power generation
DE Desalination; Power generation; Cogeneration; Thermoelectric; ORC; RO;
   Pressure retarded osmosis
ID LIFE-CYCLE ASSESSMENT; WASTE HEAT-RECOVERY; REVERSE-OSMOSIS
   DESALINATION; LOW-GRADE HEAT; MEMBRANE DISTILLATION; SEAWATER
   DESALINATION; WATER DESALINATION; FRESH-WATER; ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS;
   ENERGY
AB Over the last decade due to rapid global population growth and industrialisation of developing economies, the demand for freshwater and energy is rising, placing significant stress on these vital resources. Seawater desalination has been widely used as a solution to water scarcity, but it is energy intensive. At the same time, low and medium-grade heat sources are readily available, and has potential to supplement mainstream renewable energy sources, such as solar and wind due to their intermittent nature. Despite the availability of low and medium grade heat, its utilization remains limited due to thermodynamic inefficiencies and economic feasibility. Considering this, researchers have focused their efforts to develop more sustainable energy and water production technologies. While the broad aim of this paper it to investigate the sustainable water desalination and power generation technologies, the paper focuses on examining their integration to improve energy resource utilisation through combined desalination and power generation systems. A comprehensive review and comparative analysis of technologies, including Rankine cycle-based power generation, membrane-based processes, and hybrid systems, in conjunction with desalination techniques like reverse osmosis, membrane distillation, and multiple-effect distillation is conducted. Power generation from low grade thermal energy sources is inherently inefficient due to the thermodynamics limitations and hence not many pilot/commercial applications have been realised over the years. Similarly, thermal desalination with low grade thermal energy sources has low recovery due to limitations maximum stages. Furthermore, both these systems need comparatively large heat exchangers due to low temperature differentials, make the systems expensive leading to high cost per unit of power and water. The paper compares different configurations of combined desalination power generation systems available in the literature. The literature shows that under the same input parameters, a combined systems operating on trilateral flash cycle will produce 2.7 time more freshwater production compared to other configurations, while a Rankine cycle based combined system will provide 45.2 % more power. Literature shows the potential of membrane based combined desalination and power generation, but the currently reported power densities for such systems of 0.3 to 0.6 W/m2 is not viable and must be increase the power density must increase by at least one order of magnitude to be net positive producer of power. The paper provides several suggestions/directions for future work.
UT WOS:001373073200001
ER

PT C
AU Ge, Z
   Li, J
   Liu, Q
   Duan, YY
   Yang, Z
AF Ge, Zhong
   Li, Jian
   Liu, Qiang
   Duan, Yuanyuan
   Yang, Zhen
GP IEEE
TI Optimized Mass Velocity for Evaporator of Organic Rankine Cycle Using
   R1234ze(E) for 373.15-423.15 K Geothermal Water
DE organic Rankine cycle; R1234ze(E); mass velocity; optimization;
   thermodynamic and economic analysis
ID WASTE HEAT-RECOVERY; LIQUID-SEPARATED CONDENSATION; WORKING FLUIDS;
   MULTIOBJECTIVE OPTIMIZATION; PARAMETRIC OPTIMIZATION; PERFORMANCE
   ANALYSES; DIESEL-ENGINE; EXHAUST-GAS; ORC; MIXTURES
AB Organic Rankine cycle (ORC) is a promising technology for medium and low temperature geothermal water power generation due to its simple structure, good applicability, and user-friendliness. The evaporator absorbs heat from heat source and facilitates the evaporation of working fluid, the performance of it has an important influence on ORC system. The working fluid mass velocity is the important parameter for evaporator, the increment of mass velocity can enhance heat transfer coefficient and decrease heat transfer temperature, but it also increases pressure drop and heat transfer area, the selection of working fluid mass velocity is important for ORC system. There has been few studies on the working fluid mass velocity for ORC evaporator. The thermodynamic and economic performance of geothermal water ORC system using R1234ze(E) are analyzed, the working fluid mass velocity influences of evaporator on geothermal water outlet temperature, net power output, thermal efficiency, exergy efficiency and electricity generation cost (EGC) are studied, the optimal mass velocities for maximizing net power output and minimizing EGC are obtained for 373.15-423.15 K geothermal water respectively. The results show increasing mass velocity can increase net power output and exergy efficiency, EGC initially decreases and then increases with increasing mass velocity; optimal mass velocities increase with increasing geothermal water inlet temperature; when geothermal water inlet temperature is 418.15K, the EGC of case 2 can decreases by 22.73% compared with case 1.
UT WOS:000434199800007
ER

PT J
AU Stanley, JK
   Kennedy, AJ
   Farrar, JD
   Mount, DR
   Steevens, JA
AF Stanley, Jacob K.
   Kennedy, Alan J.
   Farrar, J. Daniel
   Mount, David R.
   Steevens, Jeffery A.
TI EVALUATION OF REDUCED SEDIMENT VOLUME PROCEDURES FOR ACUTE TOXICITY
   TESTS USING THE ESTUARINE AMPHIPOD LEPTOCHEIRUS PLUMULOSUS
DE Leptochetrus plumulosus; Sediment volume; Lead; Polycyclic aromatic
   hydrocarbon; Test method
ID MODEL
AB The volume of sediment required to perform a sediment toxicity bioassay is a major driver of the overall cost associated with that bioassay Sediment volume affects bioassay cost because of sediment collection transportation storage and disposal costs as well as labor costs associated with organism recovery at the conclusion of the exposure The objective of the current study was to evaluate reduced sediment volume versions of the standard U S Environmental Protection Agency (U S EPA) 10 d acute Leptocheirus plumulosus method that uses a beaker size of 1 000 ml and 20 organisms The test design used evaluated the effects of beaker size (250 and 100 ml) and associated sediment volume (75 and 30ml respectively) as well as organism loading density (10 and 20 organisms) on test endpoint responsiveness relative to the standard 10 d test method These comparisons were completed with three different types of contaminated sediments a field collected polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) contaminated sediment a lead spiked control sediment and a control sediment spiked with mineral oil Assessment criteria included test endpoint sensitivity endpoint consistency statistical power water quality and logistical assessments Results indicate that the current U S EPA method is preferable to the reduced sediment volume methods we assessed but that a 250 ml beaker/10 organism experimental design is of comparable utility and may be advantareous when reduced sediment volumes are desirable because of high contaminant (spiking studies) or sediment disposal costs In addition the results of the current study provide toxicity reference values for PAHs lead and an oil surrogate for petroleum hydrocarbons Environ Toxicol Chem 2010 29 2769-2776 (C) 2010 SETAC
UT WOS:000284683200017
ER

PT J
AU Musharavati, F
   Khanmohammadi, S
   Tariq, R
AF Musharavati, Farayi
   Khanmohammadi, Shoaib
   Tariq, Rasikh
TI Comparative exergy, multi-objective optimization, and extended
   environmental assessment of geothermal combined power and refrigeration
   systems
DE Exergy analysis; Genetic algorithm; Geothermal plant; Optimization;
   Environmental analysis
ID ENERGY SYSTEMS; CYCLE; HEAT; GENERATION; MEXICO; COGENERATION;
   PERFORMANCE; RESERVOIR; DESIGN; DRIVEN
AB In the present work a comparative exergy analysis, multi-objective optimization, as well as extended environmental analysis of a geothermal-based power and refrigeration system, is carried out. Different arrangements with the ammonia-water refrigeration cycle, organic Rankine cycle (ORC), and thermoelectric generator (TEG) are investigated. The current work novelties are the presentation of a novel power -refrigeration system driven by a geothermal source and the employment of TEG units to recover geothermal energy, besides extended environmental assessment. The results of sensitivity analysis indicate that the highest net output work capacity is for the suggested system (configuration 3). Exergy analysis exhibits that in all cases, the absorber has the highest exergy destruction rate and one of the lowest exergy efficiency because it is the first component, which gains the heat from the geothermal source. The suggested system produces 495.2 kW net output power and the highest energy efficiency of 19.42%, which are 131.7 kW, and 3.84% higher than configuration 1(base system). Optimization results represent that in the optimum point, Wnet shows about 33.3% improvement compared with the un-optimized condition. It is found that configuration 3 which consists of cogeneration with two loops of ammonia-water power cycle with refrigeration system along with an additional thermoelectric generator for enhanced waste heat recovery has the highest environmental footprints because of multiple components installed that would occupy more space, electricity, materials, and other resources for its construction, operation, maintenance, and end-of life. (C) 2021 Institution of Chemical Engineers. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000721498100001
ER

PT J
AU Shaik, VB
   Srinivas, T
   Kukreja, R
AF Shaik, Vajeer Baba
   Srinivas, Tangellapalli
   Kukreja, Rajeev
TI Performance analysis of heat pump polygeneration system
DE Polygeneration; solar heat pump; HDH; air reheater; energy conversion
   factor; thermal pollution
ID HUMIDIFICATION-DEHUMIDIFICATION DESALINATION; AUGMENTED DESALINATION;
   WATER; DESIGN; ENERGY; SIMULATION; RECOVERY; POWER
AB A heat pump polygeneration system is a promising technology to meet daily needs such as drinking water, power, space cooling or heating, and hot water generation. This work is focused on integrating the solar heat pump and two-stage humidification-de-humidification with a minimum space requirement. In this integrated cycle, the desired outputs i.e. condenser heat and evaporator heat are used for maximizing hot water and desalinated water production with minimal thermal pollution. For warm or hot air generation, an air reheater device is used after the heat pump. By using the switching operation, the air reheater is used accordingly as per climatic conditions. So in this integrated cycle, a coconut coir-packed humidifier is used for the humidification process, and a water-cooled heat exchanger and heat pump evaporator are used for the dehumidification process to meet the desired outputs from the system. The MATLAB simulation tool is used to simulate the thermodynamic model of the integrated cycle, and it is focused on studying the effect of mass flow rate, atmospheric temperature, relative humidity, evaporator temperature, and hot/cold water temperature, on outputs, as well as the energy conversion factor of the plant and cycle. At 25 degrees C ambient air temperature, the energy conversion factor of the plant and cycle are 0.866 and 2.2, respectively. Similarly, at 75% humid air and 35 degrees C surrounding air temperature, the gained output ratio and coefficient of performance are 4.03 and 1.964, respectively. And also, the plant and cycle energy conversion factors are 0.903 and 2.4.
UT WOS:001174643800001
ER

PT C
AU Bastos, JN
AF Bastos, Jorge N.
BE Cruz, H
   Machado, JS
   Costa, AC
   Candeias, PX
   Ruggieri, N
   Catarino, JM
TI Design and Maintenance of a Long-Span Timber Roof
DE Timber roof; Rehabilitation; Heritage; Low seismicity; Aesthetics
AB The historical Citadel of Almeida is located in the northeast part of Portugal, near the Spanish border and close to the town of Ciudad Rodrigo. This geographical location makes this region the natural entrance gate of invading armies to access the heart of Portugal and trying to reach the capital town of Lisbon. Therefore, the Portuguese border region has several military fortresses and, probably, the most unique one is twelve-point granite star of Almeida. Under a EU program to re-vitalize historical villages, the horse-riding school building (the manege) restoration project received the largest financing grant, in Phase 1, reaching 2.25 m Euro. Due to the lack of business investments, the hinterland Portuguese regions have shown during the past three decades a continuous population decrease and a migratory flux into the coastal regions, or even to other countries. The main purpose of this EU program is to help attracting new residents to these interior regions and to maintain the current residents in their locals with adequate business activities. The rehabilitation of several historical landmarks helps to provide a local sense of identity and improved living conditions by installing better infrastructures (electrical power, water supply and sewage treatment plants, telecommunication systems). Within these general program objectives, the leisure activities are one of the best "attractors" for tourism. The rehabilitation of the Almeida manege is integrated into the combination of three major guidelines: (a) historical heritage; (b) tourism and economy; and, (c) leisure activities. The designer rehabilitation criteria was: (1) to use a traditional timber solution, e.g., a scissor's type truss; (2) to use improved joint connections, e.g., split rings; (3) to carefully detail steel supports and connections; and, (4) to innovate as required by the architectural functional program. After more than sixteen years under continuous use, the manege ensemble built in the Citadel of Almeida with extensive use of timber material can still be considered both an aesthetically sound, cultural enriching, and economically feasible rehabilitation solution to be enjoyed by all kinds of visitors.
UT WOS:000392437200035
ER

PT J
AU Desta, G
   Tamene, L
   Abera, W
   Amede, T
   Whitbread, A
AF Desta, Gizaw
   Tamene, Lulseged
   Abera, Wuletawu
   Amede, Tilahun
   Whitbread, Anthony
TI Effects of land management practices and land cover types on soil loss
   and crop productivity in Ethiopia: A review
DE LMP practices; Soil loss; Crop yield; Yield loss by erosion; Ethiopia
ID WATER CONSERVATION PRACTICES; STONE BUNDS; EROSION; RUNOFF; YIELD;
   EFFICIENCY; IMPACTS
AB Identifying land management practices (LMPs) that enhance on-site sediment management and crop productivity is crucial for the prevention, reduction, and restoration of land degradation and contributing to achieving land degradation neutrality (LDN). We reviewed studies in Ethiopia to assess the effects of LMPs on soil loss (84 studies) and crop productivity (34 studies) relative to control practice. Yield variability on conserved lands was assessed using 12,796 fixed plot data. Effects of LMP on soil loss were 0.5-55 t ha(-1)y(-1) compared to control practices yielding 50 to 140 t ha(-1)y(-1). More than 55% of soil loss records revealed soil loss less than the tolerable rate (10 t ha(-1)). Area closure, perennial vegetation cover, agronomic practices, mechanical erosion control practices, annual cropland cover, and drainage groups of practices led to 74.0 +/- 18.3%, 69.0 +/- 24.6%, 66.2 +/- 30.5%, 66.1 +/- 18.0%, 63.5 +/- 20.0%, and 40 +/- 11,1% soil loss reduction, respectively. A yield increase of 25.2 +/- 15.0%, 37.5 +/- 28.0%, and 75.4 +/- 85.0% was found from drainage, agronomy, and mechanical erosion control practices, respectively. The average yield loss by erosion on fields without appropriate land management practice and on conserved fields was 26.5 +/- 26.0% and 25 +/- 3.7%, respectively. The findings suggest that practices that entail a continuous presence of soil cover during the rainy season, perennial vegetation, retention of moisture, and barriers for sediment transport were most effective at decreasing soil loss and increasing productivity. This review provides evidence to identify the best LMP practices for wider adoption and inform decision-making on LMP investments towards achieving sustainable solutions to reverse land degradation. (C) 2021 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water & Power Press. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd.
UT WOS:000706193900006
ER

PT J
AU Ifaei, P
   Charmchi, AST
   Santamouris, M
   Yoo, C
AF Ifaei, Pouya
   Charmchi, Amir Saman Tayerani
   Santamouris, Mattheos
   Yoo, ChangKyoo
TI Comprehensive performance evaluation of water and power production
   technologies using water-exergy nexus analysis
DE Desalination and wastewater treatment; Life cycle analysis; Power
   production; Renewable energy; Water-exergy nexus
ID LIFE-CYCLE ASSESSMENT; SOLAR PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM; SEAWATER
   REVERSE-OSMOSIS; ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT; EXERGOECONOMIC ANALYSIS;
   ELECTRICITY-GENERATION; THERMODYNAMIC ANALYSIS; RELIABILITY-ANALYSIS;
   KALINA CYCLE; ENERGY
AB Insight into less-known aspects of sustainable development has been deepened through the development of the nexus between water and energy in the last decades. However, the complex sustainability problem cannot be fully investigated owing to the intrinsic shortcomings of the physical concept of energy. This study considered the exergy concept as a substitute for energy to develop water-exergy nexus analysis (WExNa) as an efficient analytical framework. Accordingly, four evaluation criteria were proposed as quantitative tools of WExNa. Consequently, seven power and seven water production technologies were analyzed considering the model uncertainties in their life cycle. A big data bank, comprising 803 water and 812 power production plants, was labeled to facilitate consideration of the spatial, temporal, and environmental variety of technologies in a stochastic data-driven program. The results showed that wind, solar, and concentrating solar power plants used the least amount of water for exergy production during the entire life cycle, whereas only geothermal power technology could compete with non-renewable power in the operating stage by an exergy dissipation for product exergy index in the range of 0.2 - 3. Despite the significance of chemicals in water production, chemical exergy dissipation was negligible compared with electrical and thermal exergies. Water treatment facilities were generally superior to desalination technologies, considering all types of exergy for water. Although multi-stage flash and electrodialysis exhibited the best and worst operation metrics among the water technologies, they dissipated the most and least exergies for water production, respectively, with an acceptable confidence considering the entire life cycle. Moreover, the contrast between conventional operation indexes and the new WExNa variables entails potentially new horizons through the sustainable evaluation of engineering systems using the proposed analysis.
UT WOS:000973223900001
ER

PT J
AU Raeisi, A
   Bijani, M
   Chizari, M
AF Raeisi, Aliakbar
   Bijani, Masoud
   Chizari, Mohammad
TI The mediating role of environmental emotions in transition from
   knowledge to sustainable use of groundwater resources in Iran's
   agriculture
DE Sustainable environmental behavior (SEB); Groundwater; Environmental
   knowledge (EK); Environmental emotions (EE); Causal analysis
ID WATER CONSERVATION; BEHAVIOR; FARMERS; ATTITUDES; EDUCATION; BELIEFS;
   SIZE
AB The excessive use of groundwater resources has created numerous environmental consequences in Iran. Many water experts believe that this crisis can be overcome by fostering sustainable environmental behavior in the utilization of groundwater resources and increasing the farmers' environmental knowledge, attitude and emotions. The objective of this study was to investigate transformation of environmental knowledge to sustainable use of groundwater resources through the analysis of the mediating role of environmental emotions in Iran's agriculture. This research was carried out via a survey technique within the category of descriptive-correlation and causal-relational research. All the wheat producing farmers of Sistan and Baluchestan Province, which is a clear example of critical conditions for groundwater resources in Iran (N = 168,873), constituted the statistical population of the study of whom 384 participants were selected using a stratified random sampling method. The research instrument was a questionnaire whose validity was confirmed by a panel of professionals in agricultural extension, education and water management. The reliability of the items of the questionnaire was also evaluated via a pilot study and Cronbach's alpha (0.70 <= alpha <= 0.84). The results of the causal analysis indicated that environmental knowledge ((beta = 0.309) and environmental emotions ((beta = 0.565) have the significant influence on sustainable environmental behavior in the utilization of groundwater among wheat farmers. Therefore, it can be said environmental emotions is an important mediating factor for potentially improving water stakeholders' sustainable environmental behavior. (C) 2018 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation and China Water and Power Press. Production and Hosting by Elsevier B.V. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license.
UT WOS:000430729200007
ER

PT J
AU Tahouri, J
   Sadiki, A
   Karrat, L
   Johnson, VC
   Chan, NW
   Fei, Z
   Kung, HT
AF Tahouri, Jad
   Sadiki, Abdelhamid
   Karrat, L'houcine
   Johnson, Verner Carl
   Chan, Ngai Weng
   Fei, Zhang
   Kung, Hsiang Te
TI Using a modified PAP/RAC model and GIS-for mapping water erosion and
   causal risk factors: Case study of the Asfalou watershed, Morocco
DE Modi fied PAP/RAC Model; GIS; Water erosion; Causative factors; Soil
   erosion
ID LAND-SURFACE TEMPERATURE; SOIL-EROSION; SEDIMENT YIELD; VEGETATION;
   CONSEQUENCES; CATCHMENT; IMPACT; USLE; RIF
AB Our work focuses on the assessment of trends, erosion states and causal risk factors for soil erosion of the Asfalou watershed through the use of the Priority Actions Program/Regional Activity Center (PAP/RAC). This qualitative study model for water erosion makes it possible to assess susceptibility and determine potential fragile areas in order to diagnose the state of soil degradation. We adopted the PAP/RAC crossed matrices, the geographic information system (GIS) and remote sensing (RS) to develop the classical modelling. This method is based on three main approaches: predictive, descriptive and integration. Introducing soil types, slope length (LS) and climatic factors into our model, including rainfall erosivity (R), slope exposure, soil moisture index (SMI) and land surface temperature (LST), improved the reliability of our model. The correlation analysis identified these factors that explain erosion states and the risk of soil erosion. The coefficients of determination (R-2) of the various erosive states resulting from the modified PAP/RAC approach explain respectively 98.30%, 77% and 49.3% of the observed variability of the erosive states. These factors provide information on the current state of soil degradation depending on the degree of influence of the different factors that control erosion. The descriptive approach has shown that soil loss manifests itself in different forms, whether for sheet erosion (L) and ravines (C1) successively affecting 79.95% and 17.84% of the land. The integration approach identifies factors and areas requiring intervention to counter the effects of soil erosion in the Asfalou watershed effectively and sustainably. (C) 2021 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd.
UT WOS:000782913000009
ER

PT J
AU Liu, HC
   Li, ZY
   Li, Y
AF Liu, Haochen
   Li, Ziyong
   Li, Yan
TI Simultaneous transport of freshwater and heat: An application to Chinese
   northern coastal regions
DE Nuclear power; Combined heat; water and power (CHWP); Heat -water co
   -transport (HW-CoT); Dstrict Heating; Pipeline life -extension; Economic
   assessment
ID MULTIEFFECT DISTILLATION; RELIABILITY ASSESSMENT; FERROUS-METALS; WASTE
   HEAT; CORROSION; PIPELINES; SEAWATER; TECHNOLOGY; SIMULATION; PRESSURE
AB Enormous, clean, stable and cheap freshwater and heat from renewable and sustainable energy systems are of utmost importance to avert consequences of climate change, especially in Chinese northern coastal regions. Simultaneous transport of freshwater and heat is a novel technology for integrated use of nuclear power in the form of hot freshwater production with the potential to overcome the drawbacks of desalination and cogeneration. In this paper we address the performance of next generation supply of freshwater and heat methods. Starting our experience with simultaneous transport of freshwater and heat at an AP1000 nuclear plant, we developed for the first time a validated actual demonstration project to know the thermodynamic performance. The model allows us to understand the crucial methods to improve transport capacity through analysis. Simultaneous transport of freshwater and heat pipeline's lifespan assessment algorithm is developed to compare proper methods to extend pipeline's lifespan economically. The relationship between cost in whole lifespan and key parameters like external diameter, wall thickness, transported distance, flow velocity, corrosion rate, innercoating's price and lifespan is investigated to obtain sensitivity analysis. We found that (a) simultaneous production of freshwater and heat improves thermal efficiency by 32.61 %; (b) Thicker wall pipelines are low-cost and have stronger ability to resist economic risks and keep low-cost in whole lifespan. However, wall thickness shall be limited; (c) Thicker wall extends lifespan longer and makes cost less than inner coating. In summary, this work points out that freshwater and heat pipeline's transport capacity should be enlarged with consideration of integrated system to settle freshwater and heat's enormous demand and large-scale actual projects are needed. Once these technologies are promoted in China coastlines' thermal plants, Chinese northern areas will benefit from them.
UT WOS:001027674500001
ER

PT C
AU Al Khazraji, A
   Siddarth, A
   Varadharasan, M
   Guhe, A
   Agonafer, D
   Hoverson, J
   Kaler, M
AF Al Khazraji, Ahmed
   Siddarth, Ashwin
   Varadharasan, Mullaivendhan
   Guhe, Abhishek
   Agonafer, Dereje
   Hoverson, James
   Kaler, Mike
GP IEEE
TI Experimental Characterization of Vertically Split Distribution Wet-
   Cooling Media Used in the Direct Evaporative Cooling of Data Centers
DE humidity control; direct evaporative cooling; power and water
   consumption
AB When operating in direct evaporative cooling (DEC) mode, the amount of moisture added to a system can be controlled by frequently modulating water supply to the wet cooling media. Though many challenges arise due to geographical and site conditions, this concept can be applied to data centers to serve as a cost-effective alternative for maintaining the operating temperature of the facility at any weather condition. However, this method results in scale and mineral build up on the media because of an irregular water distribution. To prevent the scale formation, the operators allow the water supply continuously on the cooling media ultimately leading towards the high consumption of facility water and significantly deteriorating the Wet cooling media life. This challenge has been addressed for the first time by experimentally characterizing the vertically split distribution wet cooling media. These systems allow some section of the media to be wetted while other sections remain dry. Various configuration of vertically staged media may be achieved by dividing the full width of the media into two, three, four or more number of equal and unequal sections and providing individually controlled water distribution headers. To increase the number of stages and provide smooth transition from one stage to the other, a MATLAB code is written to find width of DEC media sections for known total width of the media and number of sections. Here, an experimental design to characterize the performance characteristics of a vertically split wet cooling media which has separate water distribution setup has been presented. Apart from relative humidity and temperature, other parameters of interests like pressure drop across the media and saturation efficiency of the rigid media are presented. In the unequal configuration, the media was tested for 0%, 33%, 66%, and 100%. This research provides a potential solution towards the limitation of direct evaporative cooling in terms of energy savings, facility water, reliability and contaminants.
UT WOS:000467263000129
ER

PT J
AU Tsymbarovich, P
   Kust, G
   Kumani, M
   Golosov, V
   Andreeva, O
AF Tsymbarovich, Petr
   Kust, German
   Kumani, Mikhail
   Golosov, Valentin
   Andreeva, Olga
TI Soil erosion: An important indicator for the assessment of land
   degradation neutrality in Russia
DE Russian Federation; Soil erosion; Land degradation neutrality
ID RATES; IMPLEMENTATION; KNOWLEDGE; CLIMATE; PART
AB This review of soil erosion (SE) studies in Russia focuses on two main tasks: (i) ensuring the completeness and reliability of SE data in Russia, a large country (17.1 million km(2)) with a variety of natural and socio-economic causes of land degradation, (ii) assessing the possibility of including a SE indicator among the indicators of land degradation neutrality (LDN). A wide range of statistical, remote sensing, mathematical modeling data, the results of scientific and field studies obtained at different levels were analyzed. It is asserted that in Russia the total area of eroded lands and those under erosion risk occupy more than 50% of all agricultural lands, whereas soil fertility of croplands decreased in Soviet time (from 1950s to 1980s) by 30-60% only due to water erosion. However, recent scientific studies indicate a decrease in erosion rate and in the area of eroded land during the last 30-40 years as a result of abandonment of arable land and subsequent overgrown with natural vegetation. The climate change resulting in decrease of the depth of soil freezing, flow of spring runoff also adds to the decrease of soil erosion. The SE indicator was suggested as an important complement to three global LDN indicators. At national and subnational level, it can be interpreted through such indices as "Rate of soil loss" (ton ha-1 yr-1) and "Total soil loss" (1000 tons, in certain area during selected time period). At local level the set of indices can be wider and site-specific, including those obtained through remote sensing data by using the classifier of thematic applications of remote sensing technologies; the example was tested at the local site. (C) 2020 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation and China Water and Power Press. Production and Hosting by Elsevier B.V.
UT WOS:000597782800010
ER

PT J
AU Downer, B
   Holland, A
   Li, S
   Xu, HW
AF Downer, Brian
   Holland, Alexandra
   Li, Shuang
   Xu, Huiwen
TI Winter Storm Uri, Mortality, and Health Care Use of Nursing Home
   Residents
ID HURRICANE KATRINA; ORAL HYGIENE; HOSPITALIZATION; EVACUATION; COMPARE;
   RISK
AB Importance Extreme weather events disproportionately affect vulnerable populations, particularly nursing home residents. In February 2021, Winter Storm Uri caused unprecedented power outages and water shortages across Texas. However, its impact on nursing home residents remains poorly understood. Objective To assess the association of power outages and water shortages during Winter Storm Uri with mortality and health care utilization among long-stay nursing home residents in Texas. Design, Setting, and Participants A retrospective cohort study of long-stay nursing home residents before and after Winter Storm Uri (February 14 to February 17, 2021) in Texas. Data analysis was conducted from March 2024 to January 2025. ExposureResiding in a nursing home that experienced a power outage or water shortage during Winter Storm Uri. Main Outcomes and Measures The outcome measures were weekly rates of mortality, clinician visits to nursing homes, emergency department (ED) visits, and hospitalizations among long-stay nursing home residents. Medicare claims were used to determine weekly mortality, clinician visits, ED visits, and hospitalizations 6 weeks before and 6 weeks after the storm. Differences-in-differences (DiD) analysis using 2-level logistic regression models estimated changes in outcomes associated with nursing home power or water loss. Results Of 1174 nursing homes, 231 (19.7%) reported power or water outages. The sample included 45 439 long-stay residents, with 8521 in facilities with outages (mean [SD] age, 80.07 [12.21] years; 5664 female [66.47%]) and 36 918 in facilities without outages (mean [SD] age, 80.42 [11.92] years; 12 705 female [65.59%]). DiD analysis found that residents of nursing homes with outages had a 0.13% (95% CI, 0.03% to 0.23%) higher mortality rate in the 3 to 5 weeks after the storm than those without outages. There were no significant differences in clinician visits (DiD, -0.31%; 95% CI, -1.08% to 0.47%), ED visits (DiD, 0.11%; 95% CI, -0.12% to 0.34%), or hospitalizations (DiD, 0.07%; 95% CI, -0.10% to 0.23%). Conclusions and Relevance In this cohort study of nursing home residents in Texas, power and water outages during Winter Storm Uri were associated with increased mortality but not ED visits or hospitalizations, highlighting the vulnerability of nursing home residents during extreme weather events.
UT WOS:001464793400003
ER

PT J
AU Rathnayaka, B
   Robert, D
   Adikariwattage, V
   Siriwardana, C
   Kuligowski, E
   Setunge, S
   Amaratunga, D
AF Rathnayaka, Bawantha
   Robert, Dilan
   Adikariwattage, Varuna
   Siriwardana, Chandana
   Kuligowski, Erica
   Setunge, Sujeeva
   Amaratunga, Dilanthi
TI Novel methodology for resilience assessment of critical infrastructure
   considering the interdependencies: A case study in water, transportation
   and electricity sector
DE Resilience assessment; Critical Infrastructures; Dynamic Bayesian
   Network; Interdependencies; Functionality curve
ID DYNAMIC BAYESIAN NETWORK; CROSS-VALIDATION; CLASSICAL-MODEL; SYSTEMS;
   PROTECTION; SIMULATION; FRAMEWORK; STATE
AB Critical Infrastructures (CI) are vital for societal and economic stability, yet their resilience against disasters remains inadequately understood with the increasing interdependencies among the CIs. A better understanding of these interdependencies and the dynamic nature of CI functionalities is crucial for advancing disaster resilience assessment within engineering systems. This paper introduces a novel approach using a Dynamic Bayesian Network (DBN) to assess resilience in interdependent CI systems. The DBN method enables a probabilistic evaluation of system resilience by incorporating interdependencies and capturing the temporal dynamics of system capacities. This approach offers a more detailed perspective on resilience by modelling system functionality using expected values of different functionality states over time. Using a case study in Sri Lankan electricity, water distribution, and road infrastructure sectors and 34 experts, this study examines the complex network of CIs. It demonstrates the applicability of the proposed methodology. P-values of the Chi-Square test performed between the variation of model-predicted resilience and expert assessments are significantly less than 0.05, confirming the model's validity. Additionally, this study explores the expansion of the methodology for resilience assessment under multiple hazards, emphasizing its real-world effectiveness. The findings highlight the efficacy of the proposed methodology and its potential to assist asset managers, owners, and decision-makers in informed resilience planning and optimization strategies. This comprehensive approach fills critical gaps in existing methodologies, offering a robust framework for assessing CI resilience in a dynamic and systematic nature.
UT WOS:001438529700001
ER

PT J
AU Kiemel, S
   Song, YX
   Glöser-Chahoud, S
   Miehe, R
   Sauer, A
AF Kiemel, Steffen
   Song, Yuanxin
   Gloser-Chahoud, Simon
   Miehe, Robert
   Sauer, Alexander
TI Towards a circular bioeconomy: A bi-criteria site level decision support
   for potential cluster nodes exemplified by hydrogen production in
   Baden-Württemberg
DE Circular bioeconomy; Hydrogen; Biowaste-to-X; Mixed integer linear
   program; Optimization
ID INTEGRATED OPTIMIZATION; SUPPLY CHAINS; BIOMASS; DESIGN; SYSTEM; WASTE;
   NETWORKS; STRAW
AB Fostering a local and circular bioeconomy is expected to result in increased resilience and decreased environmental impacts. By converting biobased residuals into valuable products, biowaste-to-X (B2X) technologies are enablers of such value creation. However, as biowaste is characterized by limited availability, its use must be optimized based on local supply and demand. This article presents a site level optimization model for the design of regional bioeconomic cluster nodes based on economic and ecological key performance indicators. Decisions concern the capacity of feasible technology combinations to be installed and transport of biomass from supply regions and products to demanding locations respectively. As B2X technologies are currently an emergent research field, the model is extendable to allow the consideration of future technology developments. Furthermore, framework conditions of the system under consideration are adjustable to enable a location-and time-independent application. The work addresses research, private investors, companies and municipalities, planning to install B2X facilities on a specified property to establish a cost-efficient local circular bioeconomy. The model is validated with the use case of hydrogen production. This includes B2X-but also conventional technologies to prevent dogmatic decisions and enable the identification of an optimum based on two dimensions of sustainability. Case studies with two companies in Baden-W & uuml;rttemberg, Germany, exemplify that specific framework conditions are necessary to turn biobased hydrogen production with carbon capture and storage into a favorable technology-combination. A sensitivity analysis outlines the costs for water, electricity, biomass, and workers, as well as the selling price for hydrogen and carbon removal certificates as pivotal parameters.
UT WOS:001695231800001
ER

PT J
AU Sultana, Z
   Mees, HLP
   Mallick, B
   Driessen, PPJ
   Bailey, A
AF Sultana, Zakia
   Mees, Heleen L. P.
   Mallick, Bishawjit
   Driessen, Peter P. J.
   Bailey, Ajay
TI Rising temperatures, rising vulnerabilities: Individual and community
   adaptation to heat stress in urban slums of Bangladesh
DE Heat stress; Everyone's adaptation conditions; Individual adaptation;
   Community adaptation; Low-income groups; Urban slums
ID CLIMATE-CHANGE; JUSTICE; KNOWLEDGE; ATTITUDE; EQUITY; HEALTH; AGENCY;
   PLACE; SENSE
AB Rising temperatures and intensifying heat stress disproportionately affect low-income urban communities, exacerbating existing inequalities and vulnerabilities amid accelerating climate risks. Slum residents, facing unplanned housing structures and limited access to essential services like water, electricity, and gas, adopt individual and community-driven adaptation strategies to cope with extreme heat. However, the conditions that shape their ability to adapt remain largely underexplored. Employing the Everyone's Adaptation framework, this study examines the key conditions that shape individual and community-level responses to heat stress. Data were collected through a qualitative mixed-methods approach, employing focus group discussions, in-depth interviews, expert interviews, and field observations conducted between June and August 2024 in Korail slum, Dhaka, Bangladesh. Findings indicate that individual resources, such as income, are pivotal to adaptation, while social capital supports community resilience through resource sharing and access to key facilities and services. However, persistent inequalities in resource distribution exacerbate individual vulnerabilities, intensifying the local impacts of global climate change. Participants emphasize the need for long-term adaptation strategies, such as improved housing conditions, over temporary interventions like cooling centers. The findings highlight the necessity of gender-specific and age-sensitive measures, as women face heightened challenges due to the dual responsibilities of household management and paid work and older adults face mobility challenges to access shaded spaces. By analyzing eight conditions across individual, community, and collective levels, this study advances understanding of everyday adaptation practice to heat stress and contributes to more equitable, context-specific adaptation policies that enhance urban resilience and address climate-related vulnerabilities.
UT WOS:001572162700001
ER

PT J
AU Adnani, QES
   Chase, J
   O'Connell, MA
AF Adnani, Qorinah Estiningtyas Sakilah
   Chase, Jodine
   O'Connell, Maeve A.
TI Protecting breastfeeding in emergencies: a concept analysis to inform
   midwifery education and practice
DE Breastfeeding protection; Emergencies; Midwifery education; Rights-based
   approach; Lactation support; Humanitarian crises
ID INFANT; DISASTERS
AB In humanitarian emergencies, including natural disasters, armed conflict, famine, mass displacement, and disease outbreaks, breastfeeding is a lifesaving practice for mothers and infants. As a recognised human right, it provides safe nutrition and hydration without reliance on clean water, electricity, or external supplies. Breastfeeding protects against infection and malnutrition, supports maternal health, reduces stress through oxytocin release, strengthens bonding, and promotes resilience in unstable settings. Despite this, breastfeeding is frequently undermined by misconceptions, lack of privacy, inadequate support, and the uncontrolled distribution of breast-milk substitutes (BMS), often in violation of the International Code of Marketing of Breast-milk Substitutes. These practices increase the risks of diarrhoea, infection, malnutrition, and mortality where safe preparation cannot be ensured. Midwives are well positioned to protect breastfeeding in these contexts due to their role in continuity of care and expertise in physiological infant feeding. However, their contribution is often constrained by workforce shortages, exclusion from emergency planning, and insufficient preparation for infant and young child feeding in emergencies (IYCF-E). This paper presents a concept analysis of protecting breastfeeding in emergencies and identifies key educational attributes: of breast milk-based feeding; application of IYCF-E guidance (including OG-IFE, Sphere standards, and the International Code); provision of skilled, rights-based, culturally responsive support; prevention of harmful practices such as unsolicited BMS distribution; facilitation of protected mother and baby spaces; and adherence to ethical and humanitarian standards. Embedding these competencies within midwifery education is essential to prepare educators and students for proactive, midwife-led responses in crisis settings. Drawing on ABM (2024), OG-IFE, ICM guidance, and WHO frameworks, this paper argues for curriculum integration to strengthen maternal and infant survival, resilience, and rights protection in emergencies.
UT WOS:001854898000001
ER

PT J
AU Gullberg, Y
   Wang, Z
   Eriksson, O
AF Gullberg, Ylva
   Wang, Zhao
   Eriksson, Ola
TI Potential Self-Sufficiency in Energy, Water, and Nutrients in a Swedish
   Urban Neighborhood: Codesign and Evaluation of a Decentralized and
   Integrated Infrastructure System
DE Food-energy-water; Urban harvest; Urban metabolism; Distributed
   infrastructure systems; Sustainable city
ID METABOLISM; CITY; NEXUS
AB The development of new urban areas offers a unique opportunity to improve urban resource management, where a more local resource provisioning, through decentralized and integrated infrastructure systems, can be put forward as an alternative approach for potentially reducing the environmental impact and increasing the resilience of vital functions. This study is based on a transdisciplinary workshop series with local stakeholders in the Swedish municipality of Knivsta, where a conceptual model illustrating a future decentralized and integrated infrastructure system was iteratively developed, resulting in a possible design with high societal relevance and feasibility due to this transdisciplinary process. The performance of selected solutions, in terms of the annual level of self-sufficiency in energy, water, and nutrients, was quantified, where the potential for a local provisioning of resources in a typical multifamily building neighborhood in Knivsta was up to 66% for heat, 24% for transportation, and 38% for vegetable supply. For a neighborhood with the same population, but with single-family houses requiring a larger area for both the buildings and private gardens per person, the potential was 31% for heat, 10% for transportation, and 210% for vegetable supply. Electricity, water, and graywater management could be fully supplied in all studied cases. Our findings demonstrate that decentralization and integration can provide important opportunities for utilizing resources in the urban environment, contributing to the desired functions of energy, water, and nutrients, even in countries with relatively cold and dark climates, although these are not enough for urban areas to be fully self-sufficient with their current levels of resource consumption.
UT WOS:001529600100018
ER

PT J
AU Imandoust, M
   Alghorayshi, STK
   Abbasi, S
   Seifollahi, M
   Zahedi, R
AF Imandoust, Milad
   Alghorayshi, Seyed Taher Kermani
   Abbasi, Solmaz
   Seifollahi, Mehran
   Zahedi, Rahim
TI Simultaneous Energy, Fresh Water, and Biogas Production Process
   Utilizing Solar Thermal and Sewage Sludge
DE MED desalination; power plant; renewable energy; solar PTC; steam
   gasification; tri-generation
ID BIOMASS POWER-PLANT; PARABOLIC-TROUGH; RO DESALINATION; PERFORMANCE;
   SYSTEM; HYDROGEN; ELECTRICITY; SIMULATION; DESIGN; WASTE
AB Minimizing the detrimental effects of global warming and pollution from fossil fuel consumption is essential to meet the growing demand for energy and fresh water, making it imperative to adopt renewable energy alternatives. The integration of solar energy and biomass in hybrid renewable energy systems will grow in importance. The proposed study introduces a new design that facilitates the simultaneous production of power, biogas, and fresh water in a continuous process. The present research aims to tackle the challenge of utilizing multiple renewable energy sources, such as solar and biomass, to generate power, fuel, and fresh water. To achieve this, a 4-stage multi-effect desalination system will be employed for desalinating seawater. This paper discusses combining hybrid solar and biomass feedstocks to address the challenge of maintaining consistent energy production in renewable solar power plants at night, when there is no sunlight. The challenge at hand involves assessing various factors using ASPEN Plus software, such as solar heat transfer fluid (SHTF), sewage sludge flowrates, biogas production, output waste stream of gasification reactor, power generation, and freshwater production. Additionally, the payback period for this project is approximately 4.8 years, with a net present value (NPV) of around 560 million dollars. By performing a sensitivity analysis, the viability of the designed process and the quality of the resulting products were effectively demonstrated. From the gasification process, an impressive 76.8586 tons per hour of syngas, composed of carbon monoxide and hydrogen, was generated. Additionally, the power output of the system reached 34.547 MW, while simultaneously producing approximately 783 m3/h of fresh water. Due to efficient energy recovery throughout the entire process, only 25 MW of solar power was required. Despite efforts, fresh water production was only operating at a 50% productivity level. To supply the required solar energy during daylight hours, a total of 38,908 square meters of Parabolic trough collector (PTC) was necessary. According to the environmental analysis, the primary concern is the detrimental effect of pollution on human health. Solar collectors and sea water desalination units account for over 95% of the pollution. The revelation showed that combining solar and biomass energy resources could provide a sustainable solution to meet the rising demand for fresh water, electricity, and fuel.
UT WOS:001396416500001
ER

PT C
AU Wang, YX
   Liu, KH
AF Wang, Yanxia
   Liu, Kehui
GP IEEE
TI Accident Evolution and Causal Analysis in Urban Utility Tunnels Using
   Bayesian Networks and Fault Tree Models
DE Utility Tunnels; Accident evolution and cause analysis; Bayesian
   network; Fault tree model
ID PIPELINE NETWORK; HAZARD; OIL
AB With the advancement of resilient city construction and urban renewal initiatives, the progress of underground utility tunnels has emerged as a significant trend in urban infrastructure. These tunnels play a crucial role in enhancing the comprehensive load-bearing capacity of underground pipelines while optimizing both above-ground and subterranean urban space. Given the concentration of various municipal pipelines such as water, electricity, gas and heat alongside numerous ancillary facilities,the systems within these utility tunnels are extensive and intricate, with numerous safety-related factors. In the event of a disaster, these factors can easily trigger a complex cascade of events. A bidirectional analysis of the evolution and causes of incidents within these tunnels not only aids in pre-emptively mitigating potential risks but also facilitates effective post-incident tracing and management. Current evaluation models, including classification statistics and qualitative-quantitative analysis, offer some theoretical support but often emphasize unidirectional analysis, which fails to capture the full complexity and variability of such incidents. To address this limitation, this paper proposes an innovative evaluation approach that integrates Bayesian network and fault tree analysis. By applying boolean operations on the fault tree, this method thoroughly investigates the root causes of accidents, while the Bayesian network model quantitatively assesses the likelihood of primary accidents and secondary derivative disasters within underground utility tunnels. This approach enables a comprehensive and bidirectional analysis of tunnel accidents, offering a novel perspective and methodology for risk assessment, thereby supporting the safe and stable operation of these critical urban infrastructures.
UT WOS:001414176500105
ER

PT C
AU Grant, DC
AF Grant, Dennis Charles
GP IEEE
TI Short and Long Term Energy Storage for Enhanced Resilience of Electric
   Infrastructures
DE electrolysis; fuel cell; hydrogen; energy storage
ID HIGH-TEMPERATURE ELECTROLYSIS; ALKALINE ELECTROLYSIS;
   HYDROGEN-PRODUCTION; WATER ELECTROLYSIS; SOLAR-HYDROGEN; SYSTEM; DESIGN;
   GENERATION; PRESSURE; STEAM
AB Energy storage based upon converting electricity from water to hydrogen gas provides a solution to the problem of intermittency in renewable energy systems. These benefits are not specific to isolated solar and wind energy production but can also be derived as a complement to load and demand variations on the fully integrated electrical grid. The main components of this system are electrolytic cells, which use electricity to generate hydrogen and oxygen from water, compressed gas hydrogen and oxygen storage tanks and fuel cells, which recombine hydrogen with oxygen to generate electricity.
   At times of excess energy availability, electrolytic cells are used as a controllable load by which the excess energy is converted into hydrogen and oxygen gas. When there is insufficient energy to meet demands, the fuel cell is used to recombine hydrogen and oxygen into water and create electricity. Water storage and compressed gasses can be used to further tune the load. Water can be pumped from one reservoir to another to create artificial demand, and can be allowed to flow by gravitational power to create electricity on demand. Compressed gasses can similarly be managed to create load or increase generation capacity at will. These complements are key to effectively managing electrolytic cell arrays for maximum potential, but also provide for very high versatility and resilience of the system, which can allow operators to micro-manage electrical supplies and demands. This work examines the technical details of such systems and extracts some of the lessons learned from more than fifty years of related research, prototyping and implementations.
UT WOS:000347870800056
ER

PT J
AU Javadpour, A
   Javaran, EJ
   Lari, K
   Askari, IB
AF Javadpour, Alireza
   Javaran, Ebrahim Jahanshahi
   Lari, Khosro
   Askari, Ighball Baniasad
TI Techno-economic analysis of combined gas turbine, MED and RO
   desalination systems to produce electricity and drinkable water
DE Multiple effect distillation; Gas turbine; Reverse osmosis; Energy;
   Economics
ID MULTI EFFECT DISTILLATION; MULTIOBJECTIVE OPTIMIZATION; PERFORMANCE
   ANALYSIS; REVERSE-OSMOSIS; POWER-PLANT; TVC; RECOVERY; DESIGN; MODEL
AB Water and power cogeneration systems have been received more attention in recent years. In the present research, in addition to techno-economic investigation of the integration of multiple effect desalination/thermal vapor compression (MED/TVC) system and reverse osmosis (RO) system into the gas turbine (GT) power cycle, the GT/MED-TVC/RO configuration is also proposed. At first, the models used for GT, MED-TVC and RO systems are validated with the experimental data in the literature and good correspondence is found. In this study, the effect of air temperature on the GT stack outlet gases and the effect of seawater temperature on the MED-TVC GOR are investigated. Moreover, using the RO energy analysis, the most suitable RO membrane is selected by considering the permeate quality and membrane price. Then, the LCOE and LCOW for three scenarios of GT/MED-TVC with 5000 m(3)/d, GT/RO with 5000 m(3)/d, and GT/MED-TVC/RO with MED-TVC and RO water production rates of 2000 m(3)/d and 3000 m(3)/d, respectively are determined. The results of the economic analysis in three scenarios showed that the least electricity cost and the least freshwater production cost belong to GT/MED-TVC and GT/RO configurations, respectively. Furthermore, the effect of number of stages of the MED-TVC system on the energy and economy of the GT/MED-TVC/RO configuration is explored. It was observed that increasing the number of effects from 4 to 7 has no tangible effect on the LCOE. In addition, the output temperature and concentration of GT/MED-TVC/RO plant at different number of MED-TVC effects is determined. Finally, the effect of fuel cost and desalination system scale on the LCOW and LCOE at three configurations are investigated.
UT WOS:000472924400024
ER

PT J
AU Wang, JX
   Zhang, Y
   Li, KH
   Zhang, ZQ
   Chen, C
AF Wang, Jiaxi
   Zhang, Yan
   Li, Kunheng
   Zhang, Ziqing
   Chen, Chang
TI Gully internal erosion triggered by a prolonged heavy rainfall event in
   the tableland region of China's Loess Plateau
DE Gully erosion; Mass movement; Heavy storm; Loess; Soil and water
   conservation measures
ID DRY-HOT VALLEY; SOIL-EROSION; CLIMATE-CHANGE; RETREAT RATES; MODELS;
   VEGETATION; CATCHMENT; IMPACTS; CHANNEL; RIVER
AB Gully erosion is a severe form of soil erosion, but gully internal erosion processes are poorly understood, especially at the event scale. To investigate gully internal erosion intensity and understand the related gully development mechanism in an agricultural environment with gully head stabilization and vegetation restoration efforts, two successive field investigations were carried out just before and after a prolonged rainfall event in 2021 in the tableland region of China's Loess Plateau. Thirteen gullies were investigated and all experienced gully internal erosion, while most gully boundaries were stable during the heavy rainfall event based on the comparison of the UAV digital orthograph maps (DOMs acquired with Unmanned Aerial Vehicle) before and after the rainfall event. The proportion of gully internal erosion area to gully internal area of the 13 investigated gullies ranged from 3 to 55%, with average areal erosion proportion of the gully sidewall and gully bed of 21% and 36%, respectively. The erosion area of subdrainage units (SDUs) on the gully sidewall was positively correlated to the SDU area, average SDU slope gradient and vegetation type, while the erosion area on the gully bed was positively correlated to the gully area, gully depth and gully bed slope gradient. Gully internal erosion was not significantly correlated with gully drainage area because the connectivity between the upslope and gully areas was interrupted and the effective drainage area of the gully was obviously reduced by soil erosion conservation measures, including terraces on the upslope drainage area, shrub belts, and water barriers. Thus, gully internal erosion is still active under the heavy rainfall storm against the background of the 'Grain for Green' and 'Gully Stabilization and Tableland Protection' programs, and integrated measures for preventing both gully expansion and gully internal erosion must be further enhanced in the context of climate change.(c) 2022 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
UT WOS:001089631700001
ER

PT J
AU Traisak, O
   Kumar, P
   Vahaji, S
   Zhang, YH
   Date, A
AF Traisak, Oranit
   Kumar, Pranjal
   Vahaji, Sara
   Zhang, Yihe
   Date, Abhijit
TI Advancements in Integrated Thermoelectric Power Generation and Water
   Desalination Technologies: A Comprehensive Review
DE thermoelectric generator; membrane distillation; desalination; power
   generation; renewable energy
ID GAP MEMBRANE DISTILLATION; HOLLOW-FIBER MEMBRANES; WASTE HEAT-RECOVERY;
   SELF-SUSTAINED WEBS; DIRECT-CONTACT; REVERSE-OSMOSIS; THERMODYNAMIC
   ANALYSIS; SEAWATER DESALINATION; CERAMIC MEMBRANE; FRESH-WATER
AB This paper reviews recent advancements in integrated thermoelectric power generation and water desalination technologies, driven by the increasing global demand for electricity and freshwater. The growing population and reliance on fossil fuels for electricity generation pose challenges related to environmental pollution and resource depletion, necessitating the exploration of alternative energy sources and desalination techniques. While thermoelectric generators are capable of converting low-temperature thermal energy into electricity and desalination processes that can utilize low-temperature thermal energy, their effective integration remains largely unexplored. Currently available hybrid power and water systems, such as those combining conventional heat engine cycles (e.g., the Rankine and Kalina cycles) with reverse osmosis, multi-effect distillation, and humidification-dehumidification, are limited in effectively utilizing low-grade thermal energy for simultaneous power generation and desalination, while solid-state heat-to-work conversion technology, such as thermoelectric generators, have low heat-to-work conversion efficiency. This paper identifies a key research gap in the limited effective integration of thermoelectric generators and desalination, despite their complementary characteristics. The study highlights the potential of hybrid systems, which leverage low-grade thermal energy for simultaneous power generation and desalination. The review also explores emerging material innovations in high figure of merit thermoelectric materials and advanced MD membranes, which could significantly enhance system performance. Furthermore, hybrid power-desalination systems incorporating thermoelectric generators with concentrated photovoltaic cells, solar thermal collectors, geothermal energy, and organic Rankine cycles (ORCs) are examined to highlight their potential for sustainable energy and water production. The findings underscore the importance of optimizing material properties, system configurations, and operating conditions to maximize efficiency and output while reducing economic and environmental costs.
UT WOS:001453794100001
ER

PT J
AU Peng, Y
   Tang, TJ
   Zhou, HX
AF Peng, Ying
   Tang, Tiejun
   Zhou, Huixin
TI Green development in sports: Optimizing AI-assisted solar H2, power, and
   water systems for infrastructure
DE Sector coupling; Thermochemical hydrogen production; Solar-biomass
   hybridization; SOFC; Multi-objective optimization; Power-to-X
ID OXIDE FUEL-CELL; BIOMASS GASIFICATION; ENERGY SYSTEM; PERFORMANCE
   ANALYSIS; SOFC; HYDROGEN; OPTIMIZATION
AB The increasing energy demand and sustainability needs of modern public facilities, including sports complexes, require integrated systems that can provide electricity, fuels, and water while minimizing emissions. Traditional renewable energy and combined heat and power systems often fail to meet complex requirements due to their limited operational flexibility and incomplete decarbonization. A hybrid solar-biomass-driven Power-to-X system is proposed, integrating a vanadium chloride (VCl) thermochemical cycle with a biomass gasifier and a solid oxide fuel cell (SOFC) unit to simultaneously produce electricity, hydrogen, oxygen, and freshwater. Concentrated solar power enables the endothermic VCl cycle for the production of high-temperature hydrogen and oxygen, whereas biomass-derived syngas supports electricity production via SOFCs. Multi-effect desalination facilitates efficient exergy utilization and the co-production of freshwater through waste heat recovery. The system underwent a thorough analysis employing thermodynamic, exergoeconomic, and environmental modeling, along with parametric investigation and multi-objective optimization (NSGA-II), in the context of Beijing's climatic conditions. The optimization results indicated an exergy efficiency of 55%, a total exergoeconomic cost index of 13 USD/GJ, and a CO2 emission index of 49.5 g/kWh, reflecting an optimal technoeconomic-environmental trade-off, with changes of +11%, -6%, and -3% relative to the baseline, respectively. The annual CO2 intensity is approximately 90% lower than China's grid-average (505 g/kWh), indicating significant environmental benefits. The system exhibits a levelized cost of electricity of approximately 51 USD/ MWh, indicating competitive economics and dependable operation throughout the year. The results demonstrate that sector coupling through solar-biomass hybridization and thermochemical Power-to-X integration provides a scalable, low-carbon, and resource-synergistic pathway for sustainable energy generation in large-scale urban infrastructures.
UT WOS:001719614100001
ER

PT J
AU Al-Katheeri, E
   Agashichev, SP
AF Al-Katheeri, Entisar
   Agashichev, Sergey P.
TI Feasibility of the concept of hybridization of existing co-generative
   plant with reverse osmosis and aquifer storage
DE ASR; RO; hybrid-desalination; water resources management
ID MSF; RO
AB This study considers the feasibility of hybridization of existing co-generation plant with reverse osmosis and aquifer storage. This hybrid system is characterized by the following technological, economic and strategic advantages: (1) increased range of variation of power to water ratio; (2) possibility to use seasonal surplus of unutilized power for production of additional quantity of water; (3) decreased specific CO2 emissions; (4) improved economic indicators of co-generative technology; (5) creation of strategic water reserve, etc.
   The proposed study focuses on comparison of conventional co-generative system representing the reference case with the hybrid innovative scheme. The conventional system consists of: (1) power-generating plant, (2) MSF-desalination system. The hybrid system includes (1) power-generating plant, (2) MSF-desalination, (3) RO desalination and (4) aquifer storage and recovery (ASR) technology. Unlike the reference case being based on the conventional systems, the hybrid scheme implies the concept where the seasonal surplus of available unutilized power-generating capacity is consumed by RO and seasonal excess of water accumulated within underground aquifer.
   Proposed study is based on the following assumptions: (1) available power generating capacity ranges from 80% to 100% of the maximum output being equal to 180 MW; (2) total available capacity of existing thermal desalination plant is 38 MGD; (3) seasonal variation of both water and power demand (within the range 100-60%) is considered in the model; and (4) specific energy consumption of projected RO is 6 kW h/m(3).
   For the scenario based on co-generation system (180 MW to 38 MGD) operating at 80-100% of the maximum generating capacity, the following data obtained: (A) unutilized capacity of power plant is sufficient for production of 40-80 MGD by RO; (B) unconsumed water supposes to be accumulated within underground aquifer. Calculated rate of seasonal variation of aquifer recharge ranges between 50 and 80 MGD.
UT WOS:000254781100011
ER

PT J
AU Treinish, L
   Praino, A
   Tewari, M
   Hertell, B
AF Treinish, L.
   Praino, A.
   Tewari, M.
   Hertell, B.
TI Predicting impacts of weather-driven urban disasters in the current and
   future climate
AB Effective city operations depend on local weather conditions at the scale of critical urban infrastructure such as power and water distribution systems. This includes both routine and severe weather events. For example, with precipitation events, local topography and weather influence water runoff and infiltration, which directly affect flooding as well as drinking water quality and availability. The impact of such events creates issues of public safety. Thus, the availability of highly localized weather model predictions focused on public safety and operations of infrastructure can mitigate the impact of severe weather. This is especially true if the lead time for the availability of such predictions enables proactive allocation and deployment of resources to minimize recovery time from severe events. Typically information at such a scale is simply not available. Hence, the ability of municipalities to proactively respond to these events is limited. Available continental- or regional-scale weather models are not appropriately matched to the temporal or spatial scale of such operations. While near-real-time assessment of observations of current weather conditions may have the appropriate geographic locality, by its very nature it is only directly suitable for reactive response. To address this gap, we use state-of-the-art physical weather models at the spatial scale of the city's infrastructure to avoid this mismatch in predictability. Model results are coupled to data-driven stochastic models to represent the actionable prediction of weather (business) impacts. In some cases, an intermediate physical model may be required to translate predicted weather into the phenomena that lead to such impacts. We have applied these ideas to several cities with a diversity of impacts and weather concerns and show how this coupled model methodology enables prediction of storm impacts on local infrastructure. We also discuss how this concept can be extended to a climate scale in order to evaluate the potential localized impacts of a warming planet and the effectiveness o strategies being used to mitigate such impacts.
UT WOS:000592124600007
ER

PT J
AU Gao, WB
   Jiang, HT
   Zhang, S
   Hai, CX
   Liu, BY
AF Gao, Wenbang
   Jiang, Hongtao
   Zhang, Shuai
   Hai, Chunxing
   Liu, Baoyuan
TI Vegetation characteristics and soil properties in grazing exclusion
   areas of the Inner Mongolia desert steppe
DE Fencing time; Soil restoration; Vegetation; Inner Mongolian desert
   steppe; Grazing
ID LITTER DECOMPOSITION; PLANT DIVERSITY; GRASSLAND; SEQUESTRATION;
   COMMUNITIES; CULTIVATION; MANAGEMENT; RANGELANDS; BIOMASS; IMPACT
AB In arid and semi-arid desert steppe areas, grazing exclusion with fencing is widely regarded as an effective strategy for restoring degraded vegetation and enhancing the quality of degraded soil. In this study, we hypothesized that grazing exclusion caused by fencing enhances both vegetation and soil properties, and that the longer an area is fenced, the more considerable the improvement. We conducted an observational study wherein random sampling was utilized to select 9 plots fenced for ten or more years, 25 plots fenced for four to nine years, 25 plots fenced for one to three years and 29 free-grazing plots within an area of approximately 63,000 km(2) of Inner Mongolia desert steppe. A one-way ANOVA revealed no significant differences in the characteristics of grassland vegetation or soil properties between grasslands fenced for one to three years and free-grazing grassland. After 4 years of fencing, noticeable increases in above-ground biomass, litter content, Simpson index, soil organic carbon, and available nitrogen were observed. Significant positive differences in vegetation coverage, height, species richness, soil available phosphorus, and available potassium were associated with plots with a minimum of 10 years of fencing. The soil layer with the greatest difference in the fenced-in areas for soil organic carbon was at 0-25 cm. For available nitrogen and available phosphorus, fencing produced the most significant differences in the 0-20 cm soil layer, while for available potassium, fencing produced the most significant differences in the 0-30 cm soil layer. However, the fencing did not indicate any statistically significant differences in terms of clay, silt, and sand content in any soil layer. The data support our hypothesis that grazing exclusion improves both vegetation and soil properties, and that longer periods of grazing exclusion result in greater degrees of improvement. This research offers technical guidance for the reasonable choice of fencing time across a vast area of the Inner Mongolian desert steppe. (c) 2023 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V.
UT WOS:001021607800001
ER

PT C
AU Georgiou, P
   Leventis, C
   Isaia, P
   Kyriakou, M
   Venkatasubramanian, B
   Vrachimis, S
   Laoudias, C
   Eliades, D
   Panteli, M
AF Georgiou, Panayiotis
   Leventis, Christophoros
   Isaia, Philippos
   Kyriakou, Marios
   Venkatasubramanian, Balaji
   Vrachimis, Stelios
   Laoudias, Christos
   Eliades, Demetrios
   Panteli, Mathaios
GP IEEE
TI CyDT: The Cyprus Digital Twin for Resilient Cities and Robust Critical
   Infrastructure Systems
DE Digital Twin; Critical Infrastructures; Resilience
AB Modern smart cities now place top priority on keeping Critical Infrastructure Systems (CIS) like power grids, water networks, transportation systems, and telecommunications both resilient and highly efficient. Recent advances in Digital Twin (DT) technology have made it an attractive tool for managing these systems by generating dynamic, data-driven virtual models of cyber-physical assets and their interconnections. Despite widespread adoption of DTs across many industries, there is no risk-based, scenario-driven DT framework readily available to researchers, smart city operators, and CIS managers for bolstering urban resilience. To fill this gap, we present the Cyprus Digital Twin (CyDT), a one-of-a-kind digital platform designed to manage and optimize interdependent CIS. We detail CyDT's modular architecture outlining its principal components and spotlighting its novel features and capabilities and demonstrate its adaptability and effectiveness in real-life use cases that conduct risk-based resilience analyses of power and water systems.
UT WOS:001803348300073
ER

PT C
AU Das, A
   Sen, A
   Qiao, C
   Ghani, N
   Mitton, N
AF Das, Arun
   Sen, Arunabha
   Qiao, Chunming
   Ghani, Nasir
   Mitton, Nathalie
BE Chemouil, P
   Pattavina, A
   Gourdin, E
   Secci, S
TI A Network Planning and Management Tool for Mitigating the Impact of
   Spatially Correlated Failures in Infrastructure Networks
AB Current practices of fault-tolerant network design ignore the fact that most network infrastructure faults are localized or spatially correlated (i.e., confined to regions). Network operators require new tools to mitigate the impact of such region based faults on their infrastructures. Utilizing the support from the U.S. Department of Defense, and by consolidating a wide range of theories and solutions developed in the last few years, the authors of this paper have developed an advanced Network Planning and Management Tool (NPMT) that facilitates the design and provisioning of robust and resilient networks. The tool provides multi-faceted network design, evaluation and simulation capabilities for network planners. Future extensions of the tool currently being worked upon not only expand the tool's capabilities, but also extend these capabilities to heterogeneous interdependent networks such as communication, power, water and satellite networks.
UT WOS:000386275100010
ER

PT J
AU Quattrociocchi, W
   Caldarelli, G
   Scala, A
AF Quattrociocchi, Walter
   Caldarelli, Guido
   Scala, Antonio
TI Self-Healing Networks: Redundancy and Structure
AB We introduce the concept of self-healing in the field of complex networks modelling; in particular, self-healing capabilities are implemented through distributed communication protocols that exploit redundant links to recover the connectivity of the system. We then analyze the effect of the level of redundancy on the resilience to multiple failures; in particular, we measure the fraction of nodes still served for increasing levels of network damages. Finally, we study the effects of redundancy under different connectivity patterns-from planar grids, to small-world, up to scale-free networks-on healing performances. Small-world topologies show that introducing some long-range connections in planar grids greatly enhances the resilience to multiple failures with performances comparable to the case of the most resilient (and least realistic) scale-free structures. Obvious applications of self-healing are in the important field of infrastructural networks like gas, power, water, oil distribution systems.
UT WOS:000331262600023
ER

PT C
AU Mohrdieck, C
AF Mohrdieck, C
GP VDI/VDE - VERLAG GMAH
TI Alternative drive systems for escaping the CO2-Trap
AB Given the projected increase of worldwide energy demand for transportation together with the increase of greenhouse gases, new modified conventional or alternative propulsion systems have to be developed.
   It is to be assumed for the near future, especially for the next 20 years, that the main focus of research and development will still be on the optimization of conventional propulsion technologies, that is, gasoline and diesel engines. In order to implement maximum potential of such engines, cleaner, aromatic and sulfur-free fuels are needed. In order to reduce CO2-emissions natural gas and synthetic gas-to-liquid Diesel fuels as well as other low-carbon-fuels will play an important rule in the power supply. In a following step regenerative fuels, which will be generated from biomass or solar-, wind- or water-power, will supplement conventional fuels.
   In regard to propulsion technology, hybridized concepts will lead to further fuel economy increase and emission reduction. They are supposed to introduce a transitional phase towards electric drives, for example for the use in fuel cell vehicles.
   Due to their high efficiency especially in the part load regime the energy demand for fuel cell systems is lower than the demand for all other power trains which leads to a significant reduction in energy consumption. DaimlerChrysler already started in the early 1990's to demonstrate fuel cell vehicles. In the meantime an essential progress in fuel cell technology, e.g., in power density, has been achieved. The remaining technology challenges are the further cost reduction and an improved operation reliability/durability of fuel cell systems. The commercial application of fuel cell propulsion technology requires not only these technological improvements, but also the implementation of a hydrogen infrastructure. This cannot be done by the automotive industry alone. A joint effort of political organisations, the energy industry and the automotive industry is mandatory.
UT WOS:000226097100003
ER

PT J
AU Wei, HY
   Polyakov, V
   Goodrich, D
   Efrat, M
   Guertin, PD
   Assouline, S
   Heilman, P
   Unkrich, C
   Shmilovich, Y
   Marra, F
AF Wei, Haiyan
   Polyakov, Viktor
   Goodrich, David
   Efrat, Morin
   Guertin, Phillip David
   Assouline, Shmuel
   Heilman, Phil
   Unkrich, Carl
   Shmilovich, Yuval
   Marra, Francesco
TI Modeling runoff and sediment yield at the event scale in semiarid
   watersheds
DE K2-RHEM; WGEW; Watershed modeling
ID SOIL-EROSION; CALIBRATION; UNCERTAINTY; VARIABILITY; SELECTION; CHANNEL;
   BASIN; RATES
AB K2-RHEM, a recently integrated event-based rangeland watershed model, represents one of the few process-based models available for rangeland applications. However, to gain wider acceptance and demonstrate its reliability, comprehensive evaluation results are essential. In this study, K2-RHEM was evaluated in five small semi-arid watersheds within the USDA-ARS Walnut Gulch Experimental Watershed. Using extensive runoff and sediment data, along with field surveys on channel heads, soil textures, and channel cross-sections, the model showed strong performance in predicting hydrology metrics without calibration: NS ranged from 0.53 to 0.87 and KGE from 0.54 to 0.88 for runoff; NS from 0.59 to 0.85 and KGE from 0.69 to 0.90 for runoff peak; and NS from 0.98 to 0.99 and KGE from 0.94 to 0.98 for time to peak. Sediment yield predictions were particularly accurate in watersheds with significant channel incisions, with NS of 0.65 and KGE of 0.79. Good sediment yield calibration and validation results were achieved in three watersheds, and reasonable results achieved in the smallest watershed. Sediment yield and runoff peak were found to be sensitive to level of watershed discretization. Improved model performance was seen with additional rain gauges even in small watersheds. These findings demonstrate the potential of K2-RHEM as a reliable tool for the prediction of hydrology and erosion for small-scale rangeland watershed management and highlight the importance of both proper watershed discretization and rainfall data resolution in model applications. (c) 2025 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water & Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
UT WOS:001587972900007
ER

PT J
AU Kiehbadroudinezhad, M
   Merabet, A
   Rajabipour, A
   Cada, M
   Kiehbadroudinezhad, S
   Khanali, M
   Hosseinzadeh-Bandbafha, H
AF Kiehbadroudinezhad, Mohammadali
   Merabet, Adel
   Rajabipour, Ali
   Cada, Michael
   Kiehbadroudinezhad, Shahideh
   Khanali, Majid
   Hosseinzadeh-Bandbafha, Homa
TI Optimization of wind/solar energy microgrid by division algorithm
   considering human health and environmental impacts for power-water
   cogeneration
DE Optimization; Renewable energy; Life cycle cost; Environmental impacts;
   Division algorithm; Desalination
ID PHOTOVOLTAIC-DIESEL-BATTERY; SEAWATER DESALINATION; GENETIC ALGORITHM;
   SYSTEM; WIND; DESIGN; COST; HYDROGEN; DRIVEN; STORAGE
AB Although freshwater is necessary for the well-being of humankind, increasing population growth and limited resources lead to a serious crisis to supply freshwater. Since the Earth is surrounded by seawater, desalination based on electrical power is introduced as a promising technology to provide freshwater. It is well documented that the connection of remote areas that usually do not have access to freshwater into the electricity grid is not affordable and eco-friendly. Hence, the efforts to design and construct high reliability, cost-effective, and ecofriendly stand-alone hybrid renewable energy system in remote areas. In line with this, this paper describes a novel energy management system for the optimized operation of a stand-alone hybrid energy system based on photovoltaic panels, wind turbines, batteries, and diesel generator. For this purpose, a multi-objective optimization problem is formulated by combining three objective functions, i.e., minimum the total life cycle cost as well as environmental impacts on human health and ecosystems and the maximum system reliability that can conflict with each. To solve the multi-objective optimization problem, a division algorithm is proposed that is more flexible and faster compared with conventional algorithms such as genetic algorithm. In order to show the proposed framework, a real case study in Larak Island, Iran, with appropriate solar and wind is considered. The effectiveness of the applied approach compared with optimization results of genetic algorithm and the artificial bee swarm optimization algorithm that was previously used successfully to solve optimization problems related to desalination integrated with the renewable energy system. The optimization is performed based on different diesel fuel price amounts (0.2, 0.5, and 1 $/liter). It is seen that at fuel price set to 0.2 and 0.5 $/liter, the seawater reverses osmosis desalination/photovoltaic/diesel generator/battery is the most cost-effective energy system, and when fuel price is 1 $/liter, the seawater reverses osmosis desalination/photovoltaic/wind turbine/ diesel generator/battery is the most cost-effective hybrid system. While at fuel price set to 0.2, 0.5, and 1 $/liter, the seawater reverse osmosis desalination /photovoltaic/wind turbine/diesel generator/battery is the most ecofriendly. Finally, the results of this study show proposed algorithm is faster and more accurate (100 iterations, 98.36% accuracy) than the genetic algorithm (1000 iterations, 83.03% accuracy) and the artificial bee swarm optimization (300 iterations, 95.49% accuracy).
UT WOS:000744026300002
ER

PT C
AU Al Obaidli, S
   Subramaniam, V
   Alhuseini, H
   Gupta, R
   Dolezilek, D
   Kalra, A
   Sankar, P
AF Al Obaidli, Sultan
   Subramaniam, Venkataraman
   Alhuseini, Hamood
   Gupta, Ramesh
   Dolezilek, David
   Kalra, Amandeep
   Sankar, Prasanth
GP IEEE
TI IEC 61850 Beyond Compliance: A Case Study of Modernizing Automation
   Systems in Transmission Power Substations in Emirate of Dubai Towards
   Smart Grid
AB A substation control and monitoring system (SCMS) is composed of digitally connected devices that exchange information using multiple communications protocols to protect, control, and monitor entire substation automation applications remotely from respective control centers. It is also essential to combine cybersecurity within the SCMS. In an effort to move towards smart grid, the Dubai Electricity & Water Authority (DEWA) initiated a long-term contract for the supply, installation, testing, and commissioning of 33 substations (132/11 kV) with modern automation systems for transmission power substations. DEWA has very strict requirements in terms of system availability, reliability, performance, cybersecurity, Ethernet network resiliency, and protection and communications redundancy. An HMI is included in the SCMS for local indication and control. Status, metering, and control data to the local HMI and remote utility enterprise system is provided by a redundant SCADA system. Reliable and secure communications to support mission-critical, high-speed protection schemes is achieved by an Ethernet network of utility-grade operational technology (OT) switches, not IT switches. The Ethernet network uses a modified ladder topology with IEC 62439 Part 1 Spanning Tree Algorithm (STA) via Rapid Spanning Tree Protocol (RSTP) for network resiliency and IEC 62439 Part 3 Parallel Redundancy Protocol (PRP) for message duplication. Data segregation and traffic control in the SCMS network is provided by IEEE 802.1 VLANs. The data acquisition and control along with engineering access and event report collection is accomplished using manufacturing message specification (MMS), whereas high-speed signal exchange for peer-to-peer protection schemes is accomplished using GOOSE communications protocols from the IEC 61850 communications standard. The DEWA technical SCMS specifications were built around the concept of future proofing and backward compatibility to support the evolution of smart grid capabilities by accepting smart technological advancements and future development of substation automation system features. It is strongly believed that the technical improvements made in DEWA specifications will lay a solid foundation for a sustainable automation system in DEWA over the years to come. Because DEWA is aware of the risks of digitizing substation communications networks and the recent increase in the number of cyberattacks against utilities that involve abusing vulnerabilities in the security of their communications networks, DEWA has strict cybersecurity requirements to prevent cyberinduced power outages that could potentially disrupt an electric power grid. The SCMS was designed with the holistic approach of a defense-in-depth philosophy, including supply chain security and physical security. The DEWA SCMS security design relies on a multilayer security zone approach to provide a scalable cybersecurity solution that automates tasks, streamlines operations, and improves performance.
   This paper discusses DEWA system requirements developed to facilitate the safe, reliable, and economical delivery of power in Emirate of Dubai. This is followed by a discussion of various engineering decisions that resulted from lessons learned during the design stage of the DEWA transmission power substation automation system to ensure that the system is ready for future smart grid requirements. Various analysis tools and testing techniques are described in the paper that were used to quantify the performance attributes of the IEC 61850-based system design. This project proves that with the right engineering design and a properly configured Ethernet network that uses best engineering practices for OT, performance, interoperability, and compliance to standards can coexist.
UT WOS:000434709800036
ER

PT J
AU Abedrabboh, O
   Koç, M
   Biçer, Y
AF Abedrabboh, Omer
   Koc, Muammer
   Bicer, Yusuf
TI Modelling and analysis of a renewable energy-driven climate-controlled
   sustainable greenhouse for hot and arid climates
DE Agriculture; Integrated energy system; Life cycle cost; Solar cooling;
   Spectrum selection; Thermal management
ID COOLING TECHNOLOGIES; ABSORPTION CHILLER; LEVELIZED COST; SYSTEM DRIVEN;
   SOLAR-ENERGY; PERFORMANCE; ELECTRICITY; WATER; OPTIMIZATION; GENERATION
AB Population growth and improved living standards led to increased demand for food and crops, of which culti-vation is heavily affected by average ambient temperature increase resulting from global warming. Hot and arid climate regions with high average summer temperatures suffer further as agricultural greenhouse indoor tem-perature reaches levels much higher than the ambient, causing severe dehydration and eventual death of crops. This research proposes an innovative, resilient and sustainable integrated greenhouse system to control green-house indoor climate within the cultivation range. This system consists of concentrating photovoltaic thermal system utilizing nucleate boiling heat transfer, thermal energy storage based on phase change material, lithium bromide absorption cooling system and dehumidifier, borehole ground heat exchanger, and spectrum selective roof for a greenhouse. The system is driven by renewable energy sources: Solar irradiation, ambient air, and geothermal cooling to provide electricity, space cooling, air-conditioning, and irrigation water. A comprehensive thermodynamic analysis of the sustainable integrated greenhouse system was done to obtain the energy and exergy efficiencies of the subsystems and overall system. The analysis shows overall energy and exergy effi-ciencies of 43.36 % and 19.19 %, respectively. Compared to the conventional greenhouse roof, the spectrum selective roof efficiently reduced the maximum cooling load by 29.2 %. Under the investigated hot and arid climate conditions, the system produced 33.28 kW of cooling, 29.3 kW of electricity, 8.36 L/h of dehumidified irrigation water, and 250 m3/h of dry ventilation air. An economic analysis based on the life cycle cost was executed to determine the economic feasibility of the integrated system. The recorded levelized cost of cooling, electricity, and water are 0.021 USD/kWhc, 0.0366 USD/kWhele, and 8.8 USD/m3, respectively, presenting a cost-competitive standalone integrated system.
UT WOS:000890510500002
ER

PT J
AU Rasheed, EO
   Tamang, I
AF Rasheed, Eziaku Onyeizu
   Tamang, Indra
TI The Perception of COVID-19 Pandemic Lockdown: An Exploratory Study of
   New Zealand Home Occupants
DE COVID-19; work from home; respondents; New Zealand; environmental;
   economic; psychosocial; impacts
ID ENERGY
AB The COVID-19 pandemic imposed unprecedented restrictions on movement and daily life, testing the resilience and adaptability of existing housing stock, as families worldwide were forced to adapt their homes into multifunctional environments. In New Zealand, where lockdowns were among the most stringent globally, homes rapidly transformed into workplaces, schools, gyms, and places of refuge. Little is known about how these adaptations affected the sustainability of homes and occupants' well-being, particularly in the context of future crises. This study examined the economic, environmental, and psychosocial impact of the COVID-19 lockdown on New Zealand households. A questionnaire survey was conducted, and a quantitative analysis method was employed using survey data from 92 valid responses from New Zealand respondents who experienced lockdowns in various types of housing. To find important patterns and connections, descriptive and inferential statistical analyses were conducted. Findings revealed that economic factors had the strongest influence on respondents' perceived experience during the COVID-19 lockdown, with households reporting increased electricity and water use but reduced fuel costs. Environmental factors were also significant, with respondents noting the importance of fresh air, sunlight, acoustic privacy, and more spacious rooms, alongside the critical need for a dedicated workspace. Psychosocial effects included higher distraction levels, monotony, and heightened concern for health. Group differences highlighted the influence of age and the number of bedrooms on the perceived experience of lockdown. This pilot work offers a New Zealand perspective on the intersection of the pandemic with the sustainability of homes. The practical implications of this study highlight the need for sustainable housing retrofits, hybrid work policies that support ergonomic and acoustically adequate home offices, and demographic-sensitive interventions to enhance resilience and occupant well-being in future crises.
UT WOS:001613059700001
ER

PT J
AU Xiao, Y
   Jiang, QN
   Zhao, WH
   Wang, ZX
   Xiong, R
   Li, J
   He, LJ
AF Xiao, Yao
   Jiang, Qunou
   Zhao, Weihang
   Wang, Zuoxiao
   Xiong, Rui
   Li, Jing
   He, Linjuan
TI Disparity in soil erosion processes between freeze-thaw and unfrozen
   slopes under artificial rainfall conditions in high-altitude and dry
   valleys of the Southeast Tibet region
DE Soil erosion processes; Freeze-thaw cycles; Artificial rainfall
   experiment; Splash erosion; High-altitude and dry valleys of the;
   Southeast Tibet region
ID MELTWATER EROSION; RUNOFF; CYCLES; FLOW
AB The arid valley region in southeastern Tibet exemplifies an ecologically vulnerable area in southwestern China, where soil erosion has intensified in recent years as a consequence of socio-economic growth and infrastructure construction. This study aimed to elucidate the mechanism by which freeze-thaw cycles affect soil erosion processes on the bare slopes of this alpine arid valley region under artificial disturbances from engineering construction. Focusing on bare slopes with inclinations of 20 degrees and 40 degrees, we analyzed the impact of freeze-thaw cycles on flow and sand production through indoor artificial rainfall experiments. The findings indicated an approximately threefold increase in soil splattering following the freeze-thaw cycle compared to unfrozen slopes; cumulative flow production exhibited a declining trend, decreasing by 15.99 % and 37.42 % after the freeze-thaw cycle at slope angles of 20 degrees and 40 degrees, respectively; cumulative sand production increased by 2.29 % and 51.24 % after the freeze-thaw cycle at slope angles of 20 degrees and 40 degrees, respectively. On the freeze-thaw and unfrozen slopes, the sand production rates escalated swiftly following the initiation of flow production, reaching peaks of 1.34 g m(-2)center dot min(-1) and 1.52 g m(-2)center dot min(-1) in 10 min and 12 min, respectively. Post the freeze-thaw cycle, the rates stabilized, with the sand production rates on the freeze-thaw slopes exceeding those on the unfrozen slopes. These findings will serve as a significant reference for the management of bare ground surfaces and the conservation and restoration of biological environments following construction disturbances. (c) 2025 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water & Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
UT WOS:001587972900005
ER

PT J
AU Zhang, BX
   Jia, YF
   Fan, HM
   Guo, CJ
   Su, FL
   Li, S
   Fu, J
   Zhang, X
   Yu, MY
   Yang, MC
   Ma, RM
AF Zhang, Boxiang
   Jia, Yanfeng
   Fan, Haoming
   Guo, Chengjiu
   Su, Fangli
   Li, Shuang
   Fu, Juan
   Zhang, Xi
   Yu, Mingyao
   Yang, Mingchun
   Ma, Renming
TI Impact of soil compaction on the rill erosion of Mollisol by waterflow:
   A comparative analysis before and after the seasonal freezing and
   thawing
DE Soil compaction; Freeze and thaw cycles; Runoff; Soil erosion; Chinese
   Mollisol
ID INFILTRATION-RATE; VOLUME CHANGES; BULK-DENSITY; CLAY LOAM; RUNOFF;
   DEGRADATION; CYCLES; SLOPE
AB Soil erosion resulting from soil compaction and freeze-thaw action is a major global environmental issue in intensively mechanized agricultural and cold regions. Existing studies predominantly focus on the direct effects of freeze-thaw cycles on soil erosion, yet overlook the legacy effects of pre-freeze-thaw soil compaction. This study aimed to reveal the cross-temporal impact mechanisms of pre-freeze-thaw soil compaction on post-freeze-thaw soil erosion and how soil properties drive these effects. A comparative study was conducted in the Mollisol region of Northeast China by utilizing in situ field erosion experiments and soil property measurements under various compaction levels before and after the freeze-thaw period. Results showed that before the freeze-thaw period, compaction significantly increased total runoff and sediment mass (p < 0.05). After the freeze-thaw period, the sediment mass of compacted soil decreased by 1.84 %-57.73 % compared to before the freeze-thaw period, but still increased by 28.59 %-148.22 % compared to uncompacted soil. The structural equation model revealed that before the freeze-thaw period, the influence of soil properties on runoff was greater than their direct effect on sediment mass, and the sediment mass variation was mainly driven by runoff scouring due to soil compaction. After the freeze-thaw period, the decreased soil erosion resistance (aggregate stability and soil strength) and the increased runoff caused by the legacy effects of compaction were the primary reasons for higher sediment mass in compacted soil compared to uncompacted soil. This study highlights the crucial role of human activities before the freeze-thaw period in influencing subsequent erosion dynamics, providing essential insights for erosion control and soil restoration in vulnerable farmlands. (c) 2025 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water & Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
UT WOS:001587972900002
ER

PT C
AU Abuzayan, KMA
   Whyte, A
   Bell, J
AF Abuzayan, Kayis M. A.
   Whyte, Andrew
   Bell, Joyce
BE Amaratunga, D
   Haigh, R
TI Asset-management framework(s) for infrastructure facilities in adverse
   (post-conflict/disaster-zone/high-alert) conditions
DE civil-engineering; infrastructure; asset-management; adverse-conditions
AB Public works departments have responsibility to manage and operate (transportation/water/power) infrastructure assets through planning and adoption of appropriate (facility) management techniques. Efficient asset-management becomes all the more important for countries subject to post-conflict/post-disaster adversity, not only to reactivate essential services, but also because programs that stimulate civil-engineering industry participation contribute much to recovery rates and can make-up 10% of a (recovering) nation's Gross Domestic Product. A good asset-management model needs to address key activities, communicate respective interconnectivities, and realize best practice. Limited study has been done into asset-management model frameworks that link directly with the change-management strategies required by recovering societies; this presents an obstacle to the prompt implementation of essential asset-management systems in sectors operating in adverse conditions. Asset-management techniques able to take account of the full range of factors in less stable environments require to link contributory variables including: dynamic user-needs analyses, life-cycle analysis, national design specifications, building codes, prefabrication opportunities, procurement routes, and project management tools towards re-build/retro-fitting. This early stage research project presents progress thus far in developing an integrative asset-management framework for infrastructure facilities in adverse/high-alert conditions using a multitude of North African case-study locations. Discussion centers upon developing framework(s) as a basis for workable procedures able to be amended with regard to (changing) design specifications/standards/legislation. Secondary research is presented that addresses the need to integrate economic whole-life evaluation techniques, asset-management tools and scopes in flux, and the extent to which such examination allows future development of flexible change-management for adverse situations towards incorporation into an integrative asset-management framework for infrastructure and civil engineering assets. (C) The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.
UT WOS:000358678400038
ER

PT C
AU Kumar, R
   Shukla, AK
   Sharma, M
   Nandan, G
AF Kumar, Rishabh
   Shukla, Anoop Kumar
   Sharma, Meeta
   Nandan, Gopal
TI Thermodynamic investigation of water generating system through HDH
   desalination and RO powered by organic Rankine cycle
DE Efficiency; Organic Rankine Cycle; Humidification; Vapor Extraction
   Ratio; Waste Heat; Fresh Water
ID FLUID SELECTION; HEAT-RECOVERY; DESIGN; ORC; ENGINE
AB The present study proposed the water generating system through humidification-dehumidification desalination unit and RO powered by organic Rankine cycle to generate both power and drinking water from the waste heat of Naval Ship by using a low-temperature organic Rankine cycle. Waste heat from the naval ship is used in order to run the topping cycle namely the organic Rankine cycle for power generation which operates the RO system for drinking water. A water-heated humidification dehumidification (HDH) desalination unit is also integrated with the organic Rankine cycle system to produce additional freshwater. The mass and energy balance equations are designed to analyze the thermodynamic performance of the cogeneration of the power-water system at the designed conditions. Suitable working fluids for the organic Rankine cycle are chosen on the basis of thermophysical properties i.e. lower boiling point, critical temperature & pressure and global warming potential. Furthermore, the impact of various vital parameters like extraction pressure, vapor extraction ratio, condenser temperature, turbine inlet pressure, etc. on the performance. It was founded that the impact of extraction parameters on the cycle, the net power, total efficiency and water production is 16.74 kW, 42.10% and 75.18 kg h-1 respectively. The extraction ratio variation causes the improvement in the water production and power generation and lower extraction ratio has better results. The RO System used is direct mechanical coupling which uses the power to run the system and produces the water, 2.4L of drinking water is produced using 16.74 kW power, respectively. (c) 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved. Selection and peer-review under responsibility of the scientific committee of the International Conference on Innovations in Clean Energy Technologies.
UT WOS:000685124800012
ER

PT C
AU Bischoff, A
AF Bischoff, Annaliese
BE Panagopoulos, T
   Burley, JB
TI Exploring cultural roots & planting seeds for growth: Cultural
   development through design
DE heritage tourism; cultural renewal; public art
AB Officials in the Massachusetts town of Montague convened a working group of artists and public officials to advance the idea of redeveloping an abandoned convenience store adjacent to the site of the Great Falls Discovery Center in downtown Turners Falls, one of the town's five villages, into a cultural center highlighting the arts and the theme of heritage landscapes. The group looked to the Department of Landscape Architecture and Regional Planning at the University of Massachusetts for assistance in the planning, design, and public involvement process for redeveloping the site. To date, four university studios have provided unique assistance to advance ideas for the center. Results from the first studio of graduate landscape architecture students particularly provided a useful vision to the site redevelopment by illustrating several conceptual design alternatives for the town to consider. With an emphasis on the approach that this studio provided through the use of a visual toolkit, this paper offers a successful model for engaging participants directly in the planning and design. Turners Falls developed as a planned industrial community in the late 1860s within an agricultural context. Manufacturing facilities were constructed along a canal to take advantage of cheap water power. Housing and commercial establishments for mill workers developed within easy walking distance of the mills, with a continuance of small farms throughout the surrounding area. Following a loss of manufacturing jobs, the economy of the town began to suffer by the 1940s. A revitalization effort to restore downtown Turners Falls began in the early 1980s. The downtown was designated as a National Register Historic District in 1982. However, the town continues its search for an economic recovery. Grant-supported federal and university funding has greatly aided the town's goal of redeveloping a derelict central commercial district building. The conceptual designs of the graduate students laid a strong foundation for revitalization by illustrating a range of opportunities for the former Cumberland Fartris building and site as well as demonstrating how the site could be integrated into the downtown. The work has engaged local artists in planning for economic development, encouraging work that reflects the rich industrial history of the area. In addition, this research helped inspire a series of annual cultural events and activities all under the umbrella of a project called River Culture. Farmers markets, films festivals, open studio, and walking tours now occur throughout the year. Due in part to the efforts of this studio, Turners Falls is well on its way making an economic recovery by filling a niche in the thriving creative economy of northwestern Massachusetts.
UT WOS:000257930800015
ER

PT J
AU Ashraf, M
   Nada, S
   Hassan, H
AF Ashraf, Mohamed
   Nada, Sameh
   Hassan, Hamdy
TI Evaluation of new cascade sustainable multioutput energy system for
   hydrogen/fresh water/power production from industrial waste: Impact of
   working fluid and heat source conditions
DE Waste steam; Hydrogen production; Heat recovery; Poly-generation system;
   PEM electrolysis; HDH desalination
ID HUMIDIFICATION-DEHUMIDIFICATION DESALINATION; ORGANIC RANKINE-CYCLE;
   THERMOELECTRIC GENERATOR; THERMODYNAMIC ANALYSIS; INTEGRATED-SYSTEM;
   EXERGY ANALYSIS; THERMAL DESIGN; POWER; PERFORMANCE; RECOVERY
AB This study assesses a poly-generation system, driven by low-grade industrial waste steam, that is electrically and hydraulically self-sufficient - its hydrogen electrolyzer draws power and feedwater entirely from upstream subsystems within the cascade rather than from grid electricity or external freshwater supply - while depending on a continuous waste-steam stream, seawater feed, and auxiliary cooling infrastructure as its external thermal and material boundary conditions. The system features a four-stage thermodynamic cascade comprising an Organic Rankine Cycle (ORC), a Thermoelectric Generator (TEG), a Humidification-Dehumidification (HDH) desalination unit, and a Proton Exchange Membrane (PEM) electrolyzer. The study was carried out for the ORC working fluids R245fa, Cyclopentane, and n-Pentane, at different waste steam temperatures and qualities. A rigorous mathematical model was developed in MATLAB, with each subsystem independently validated against dedicated experimental datasets; full four-stage cascade validation was not attempted because no equivalent integrated experimental system exists in the literature. The results show that using R245fa resulted in significant operational instability, with a 16% power drop. Cyclopentane eliminates the transition penalty and ensures a smooth, monotonic rise in power across the full temperature range. Under the highest steam operating conditions (200 degrees C, saturated vapor), the system utilizing Cyclopentane delivers a maximum net power of 998.48 kW, a peak hydrogen production rate of 22.12 kg/h, and an overall system efficiency of 12.82%, representing a 25% improvement over the R245fa baseline. A complementary exergy analysis reveals that Cyclopentane also achieves the highest overall second-law efficiency (18.20%). Furthermore, component-level assessments identify the HDH unit as the primary thermodynamic bottleneck with the lowest exergetic efficiency (0.19%). In contrast, the PEM electrolyzer achieves the highest (>73%), confirming the rational allocation of high-quality electrical exergy toward hydrogen production. Simultaneously, the HDH unit secures a substantial freshwater surplus of 1948 L/h beyond the electrolyzer's consumption. The study highlights a strategic trade-off: while saturated steam maximizes electrical output, lower steam quality (0.8) maximizes the Energy Utilization Factor of a peak of 39.23%. Techno-economic and environmental assessments confirm the system's viability; utilizing Cyclopentane at 200 degrees C minimizes the Levelized Cost of Hydrogen (LCOH) to an optimal 1.783 USD/kg, yielding a 20-year Net Present Value (NPV) of 4967.5 kUSD with a rapid payback period (PBP) of 2.49 yr, while mitigating 3775.8 tons of CO2 annually.
UT WOS:001842305800001
ER

PT C
AU Lindvall, S
   Kerwin, S
   Thompson, S
   Thomas, P
   Zandieh, A
   Davis, C
   Heron, C
AF Lindvall, Scott
   Kerwin, Scott
   Thompson, Stephen
   Thomas, Patricia
   Zandieh, Arash
   Davis, Craig
   Heron, Christopher
BE Davis, CA
   Yu, K
   Taciroglu, E
TI San Andreas Fault Displacement Hazard Characterization of the Los
   Angeles Aqueduct at the Elizabeth Tunnel
ID EARTHQUAKE
AB The Los Angeles Aqueduct provides critical supply for the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power conveyance system by transporting water from Owens Valley to the northern San Fernando Valley. The aqueduct's crossing of the San Andreas fault (SAF) at Elizabeth Tunnel represents a major engineering challenge to risk mitigation. Future SAF ruptures have the potential to completely sever the 2.9-m-wide tunnel and disrupt its operation. Fault characterization and displacement hazard studies were performed to support development of design concepts. Following extensive field investigations, an integrated geological model was developed characterizing the SAF locally as a steeply south-dipping zone of faults that narrows and coalesces from the surface to tunnel depth. Large, calculated displacement hazard values developed in accordance with the design guidelines were compared with average and maximum surface displacements from a global data set of large, continental strike-slip earthquakes to develop final recommendations of fault displacement hazard at the tunnel crossing. Characterization of the fault zone and displacement hazard are being used to develop design alternatives to improve LADWP water supply resilience.
UT WOS:000904487200001
ER

PT J
AU Perelman, G
   Shmaya, T
   Navon, A
   Vrachimis, S
   Panteli, M
   Eliades, DG
   Ostfeld, A
AF Perelman, Gal
   Shmaya, Tomer
   Navon, Aviad
   Vrachimis, Stelios
   Panteli, Mathaios
   Eliades, Demetrios G.
   Ostfeld, Avi
TI Coordinated operational optimization of water and power systems under
   emergency conditions
DE Water-energy nexus; Off-Grid; Microgrid; Coordinated optimization;
   Resilience; Emergency operation
ID DEMAND RESPONSE; ROBUST OPTIMIZATION; RESILIENCE; STRATEGIES; NETWORKS
AB This research addresses the integrated management of Water Distribution Systems (WDS) and Power Distribution Systems (PDS) to enhance operational efficiency and resilience during extreme scenarios. Traditionally, these systems are operated independently, leading to sub-optimal performance. Alternatively, some studies have proposed a joint operation of WDS and PDS, assuming that decisions are made simultaneously by a single decision-maker, which is impractical. We propose a novel emergency control method that relies on sparse communication between WDS and PDS operators, aiming to minimize load shedding (LS) in the PDS by strategically managing power demand in the interconnected WDS. The results show that the proposed coordinated approach has similar performance to a full cooperation approach between the two systems while requiring only minimal information exchange. Our approach demonstrates the potential of limited yet targeted information exchange, fostering cross-sectoral collaboration to maintain service continuity under extreme conditions, and underscores the critical role of integrated management in ensuring the resilience of interconnected infrastructure systems.
UT WOS:001426264200001
ER

PT J
AU Carollo, FG
   Di Stefano, C
   Nicosia, A
   Palmeri, V
   Pampalone, V
   Ferro, V
AF Carollo, Francesco G.
   Di Stefano, Costanza
   Nicosia, Alessio
   Palmeri, Vincenzo
   Pampalone, Vincenzo
   Ferro, Vito
TI Plot investigation on rill flow resistance due to path tortuosity
DE Rill erosion; Tortuosity; Rill morphology; Friction factor; Rill flow
   resistance
ID EXPERIMENTAL AREA; EROSION; VELOCITY; HYDRAULICS
AB The path tortuosity t is an indicator of rill morphology accounting for the deviation of the thalweg from a straight alignment. The effect of t on flow resistance has been little investigated for rills. This paper reports the results of a plot investigation aimed to establish the suitable accuracy of the rill thalweg measurement to determine the tortuosity parameter and to test the reliability of a theoretical flow resistance law. Four rills were incised in clay soil (CS) and clay-loam soil (LS) and shaped by a clear flow discharge. The three-dimensional Digital Terrain Models were created by the Structure from Motion technique. For rills on LS, an approximate thalweg was tracked by photo-interpretation, and a specific calculation routine was applied to identify the cross sections with a constant spacing d. The actual rill thalweg was obtained as the line joining the lowest points of these cross-sections. Among the different tested d values, d 1/4 0.075 m was chosen to determine t. For both CS and LS, the Darcy-Weisbach friction factor f featured a non-monotonic relation with t, which was explained as the result of three additive components due to bed roughness, sediment transport, and localized energy losses due to curves. The effect of the former two components on f contrasts that of the third, resulting in a linearly decreasing f -t relationship and constant flow velocity for the three lowest tortuosity values, and an increased friction factor and reduced flow velocity for the highest tortuosity value. The flow resistance law was positively tested, and the predicted friction factor was dependent on t.(c) 2023 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
UT WOS:001089733600001
ER

PT J
AU Shi, WH
   Wang, MM
   Li, DH
   Li, XW
   Sun, MY
AF Shi, Wenhai
   Wang, Miaomiao
   Li, Donghao
   Li, Xianwei
   Sun, Mengying
TI An improved method that incorporates the estimated runoff for peak
   discharge prediction on the Chinese Loess Plateau
DE Chemicals Runoff and Erosion from; agricultural management systems;
   (CREAMS); NRCS-CN; Peak discharge; Surface runoff; Rainfall intensity
ID SEDIMENT YIELD; SOIL-EROSION; SWAT MODEL; HILLY AREA; LAND-USE;
   RAINFALL; FLOOD; CATCHMENT; REGIONS; FLOWS
AB An accurate prediction of peak discharge in watersheds is critical not only for water resource manage-ment, but also for understanding the complex relationships of hydrological processes. In this study, a modified peak discharge formula based on the Chemicals, Runoff, and Erosion from Agricultural Man-agement Systems (CREAMS) model was developed by introducing rainfall intensity and soil moisture factors. The reliability of the proposed method was tested with data from 1464 storm events in 41 watersheds and was applied to 256 storm events in five remaining typical watersheds using the opti-mized parameters. The results indicate that the proposed method is highly accurate in terms of model efficiency, as determined by Nash-Sutcliffe efficiencies (NSEs) of 88.60%, 74.04%, and 90.12% during the calibration, validation, and application cases, respectively. Furthermore, it performed better than the original and modified CREAMS methods. Subsequently, using the parameters derived from the initial 41 watersheds and the runoff estimated using the modified Soil Conservation Service curve number (SCS-CN) method, the proposed method was used to predict the peak discharge from the last five typical watersheds. Large NSE (63.88-80.83%) and low root mean square error (RMSE) values (0.31-35.93 m3s-1) were obtained for the five watersheds. Overall, the proposed peak discharge model, combined with the modified SCS-CN method, may accurately predict event-based peak discharge and runoff for general applications under various hydrological and geomorphic conditions in the Loess Plateau region.(c) 2022 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
UT WOS:000959334800001
ER

PT C
AU Yusoff, NA
   Shafii, H
   Omar, R
AF Yusoff, N. A.
   Shafii, H.
   Omar, R.
BE AbdRahman, N
   Khalid, FS
   Othman, NH
   Ghing, TY
   Yong, LY
   Ali, N
TI The impact of floods in hospital and mitigation measures: A literature
   review
ID BUILT ENVIRONMENT; RESILIENCE; KELANTAN; SYSTEM
AB In late December 2014, the flood was most significant and largest recorded specifically in the Kelantan, Malaysia. It was considered to be a "tsunami like disaster" in which 202,000 victims were displaced and causing widespread collapse of public infrastructure. Flooding of hospital results in interruption of business, loss of infrastructure, such as electrical power and water supplies, increased difficulty in providing routine medical and increased patient admissions and nursing care for patients with chronic diseases, such as renal failure, diabetes, cancer, cystic fibrosis and mental illness. The aimed of this paper to identify the best of measures for reduce the risk of flood in hospital. Method of this paper uses the previous study result. Several related previous study can be used as measures to mitigation flood risk in Malaysian hospitals. Early stage research of related studies hope to help add more information to assist researchers in reducing the risk of flooding in hospital. The findings with proper pre-event preparation framework for mitigation flood risk of hospitals, the continuing medical services can be provided to patient especially during emergency.
UT WOS:000426774000026
ER

PT C
AU Kabir, MH
   Sato, M
   Habbiba, U
   Bin Yousuf, T
AF Kabir, Md Humayun
   Sato, Miharu
   Habbiba, Umma
   Bin Yousuf, Tariq
BE Amaratunga, D
   Haigh, R
TI Assessment of Urban Disaster Resilience in Dhaka North City Corporation
   (DNCC), Bangladesh
DE Urban Disaster Resilience Index (UDRI); Disaster Risk Reduction; Dhaka
   North City Corporation; Dhaka; Bangladesh
AB The present study measures the current level of urban disaster resilience of Dhaka North City Corporation (DNCC) by assessing the challenges and potentialities in different aspects of urban system using Urban Disaster Resilience Index (UDRI) model. UDRI was developed based on Climate Disaster Resilience Index (CDRI) introduced by the International Environment and Disaster Management Laboratory of Kyoto University Graduate School of Global Environmental Studies, Japan in 2008. UDRI measures urban disaster resilience by considering five dimensions: physical, social, economic, institutional and natural and shows resilience level in scores from 1-5 where 1 representing very poor and 5 the best. UDRI was calculated for the 36 wards under 5 zones of DNCC Findings show that the utility services such as electricity, water and drainage system, accessibility to roads, housing and landuse, health facilities, social capital, community knowledge and preparedness about disasters and Disaster Risk Reduction (DRR), and environmental conditions are each playing a role in determining the resilience. From the overall resilience analysis, DNCC's Overall UDRI (all ward average score of the 5 dimensions) scored 2.52, while the physical and social resilience are higher (3.37 and 2.53 respectively) than the other dimensions on average whereas natural and institutional resilience show low scores (2.37 and 2.11 respectively). As compared to an assessment done in 2010 when overall UDRI score of then Dhaka City Corporation (DCC) was 2.35, the city realized a significant improvement in physical and economic resilience, however, scores of social, institutional, and natural resilience dropped. This indicates that holistic and continuous approach is required as risk situation changes constantly and improving infrastructure alone cannot ensure disaster resilience of a city. The analysis suggests that mainstreaming of DRR, allocation of budget for DRR, environmental policy, and community preparedness are key challenges to lead DNCC towards more resilient and safer city. (C) 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.
UT WOS:000552392300142
ER

PT C
AU Mohajeri, N
   Javanroodi, K
   Nik, V
   Zhou, J
   Gudmundsson, A
   Ferguson, L
   Anvari, E
   Taylor, J
   Symonds, P
   Davies, M
AF Mohajeri, N.
   Javanroodi, K.
   Nik, V.
   Zhou, J.
   Gudmundsson, A.
   Ferguson, L.
   Anvari, E.
   Taylor, J.
   Symonds, P.
   Davies, M.
BE Waibel, C
TI Combined impacts of extreme climate events and pandemic on future energy
   use in low-income households in Greater London
DE Pandemic; cooling energy demand; extreme climate events; low-income
   housing
AB The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on building energy use has been studied across various countries. However, with the growing trend toward flexible working and the rising frequency of climate-induced extreme weather events, the combined effects of these factors on future energy use remain largely unexplored. This study develops a methodology to investigate the resilience of the UK's low-income housing sector in response to the combined impacts of climate change and pandemics. Energy use of 7 residential archetypes (Bungalow, Converted flat, Detached, Semi-detached, Mid-terrace, End-terrace, and Low-rise buildings) under 13 future climate scenarios for the year 2050 and using detailed pandemic occupancy profiles is simulated. Specific thermo-physical properties and construction details of the archetypes (e.g., U-values, building envelope, HVAC system characteristics, boundary conditions, etc.) are obtained from English Housing Survey (EHS) data to develop a multi-zone model using the EnergyPlus software. The aim is to simulate hourly energy use (heating & hot water, electricity, and cooling) considering future climate scenarios (for the year 2050 as extreme warm and extreme cold) and pandemic measures for (1) Standard Retrofitting Scenario (SRS) and (2) Deep Retrofitting Scenario (DRS) for different housing archetypes. The results show that the increase in cooling during the extreme warm year (EWY) - and under the extended 14-hour to 24-hour potential pandemic occupancy schedule - is significantly greater than the rise in heat consumption during the extreme cold year (ECY) but varies across the housing archetypes. Furthermore, the results show retrofitting can result in higher cooling requirements. Across the three retrofitting scenarios, energy use for cooling is highest under the DRS, while the base case scenario (BCS), no retrofitting, shows the lowest energy use for cooling. Implementing passive cooling measures, such as shading, ventilation, and using cool/green roofs, may offset the increase in cooling demand caused by retrofitting.
UT WOS:001686944400137
ER

PT C
AU Ulieru, W
AF Ulieru, Whaela
GP IEEE
TI Design for resilience of networked critical infrastructures
DE complex adaptive systems; emergence and self-organization; ubiquitous
   computing; design for resilience; infrastructure interdependencies;
   agent-based modeling and simulation; threat anticipation modeling;
   adaptive risk management; cyber-physical systems; networked embedded
   control systems
AB Any critical infrastructure is controlled and managed by networked information and communication technologies (ICT) systems. Tremendous progress in the emerging area of ubiquitous, pervasive and tangible computing enables hardware and software to be integrated to a degree that makes possible a technological revolution in which ICT systems merged with physical infrastructure will be transformed together into a vast intelligence network, called an 'eNetwork. eNetworks are the 'nervous system' of interdependent critical infrastructures and as such are the 'the weakest link. We introduce a novel approach to building resilient critical supply networks of any kind (electricity, water, gas, finances, materials and products, etc). The proposed approach endows the eNetworked infrastructure with self-awareness such that it is able to identify possible threats or emerging vulnerabilities and reconfigure itself to attain resilience to both accidental failures and malicious attacks. By using natural models of emergence, much in the same manner that DNA is controlled in genetic engineering, we will be able to control the emergence of a network configuration resilient to anticipated threats before they manifest. The novelty consists in the integration of context-aware modelling as a tool for controlling the clustering mechanism through which the eNetwork self-organizes its services to tune its resilience according to the dynamics of the occurring situation. A significant step forward in the area of complexity science this novel approach enables a major breakthrough in the way we interact with the surrounding environment and physical world. Resilient eNetworks open perspectives unthinkable before on how to approach major technological, economic, societal and ecological problems of international concern, such as blackout-free electricity generation and distribution, optimization of energy consumption, networked transportation and manufacturing, disaster response, efficient agriculture, environmental monitoring, financial risk and sustainability assessment.
UT WOS:000249667300085
ER

PT J
AU Zeng, RC
   Zhang, GH
   Su, XF
AF Zeng, Rongchang
   Zhang, Guanghui
   Su, Xufei
TI Seasonal variation in soil erosion resistance of gullies covered by
   different plant communities on the Loess Plateau of China
DE Rill erodibility; Critical shear stress; Seasonal variation; Gully
   erosion; Vegetation restoration
ID LAND-USE; DETACHMENT; VEGETATION; FLOW
AB Vegetation growth can effectively alter near soil surface characteristics of plant communities, which is likely to impact the seasonal variation in soil erosion resistance of gullies, particularly in semi-arid and arid regions. However, few studies have been focused on quantifying the temporal variations in soil erosion resistance of gullies restored with different vegetation communities at the seasonal scale. This study investigated the seasonal variation in soil erosion resistance of gullies covered by five different plant communities on the Loess Plateau. The experiment was conducted 7 times from 15 May to October 4, 2023 at an approximately 3-week interval. For each time, 90 natural undisturbed topsoil samples were carefully collected from the bottom, left, and right banks of each gully. The collected samples were subjected to scouring under different hydraulic conditions to measure soil detachment capacity and then to determine soil erosion resistance, reflected by rill erodibility (Kr) and soil critical shear stress (tc). Near soil surface characteristics of plant community were also measured at the same sites with an identical frequency. The results showed that soil erosion resistance differed significantly for gullies covered by different plant communities. The mean Kr of grass communities was 0.17 m s-1, which was 47.8 % and 30.6 % to that of shrub and forest communities, respectively. The mean tcof grass communities was 1.45 and 1.26 times that of shrub and forest communities. During the vegetation growth season, soil erosion resistance of gullies covered by different plant communities increased gradually. The seasonal variations in soil erosion resistance were dominantly influenced by the temporal changes of soil cohesion (Coh), soil penetration resistance (PR), water stable aggregate (WSA), and root mass density (RMD). Kr decreased exponentially with Coh and WSA, and logarithmically with PR and RMD, while tcincreased linearly with these four factors. Rill erodibility could be well estimated by Coh, PR, WSA, and RMD (R2 = 0.91, NSE = 0.91). The results are conducive to insight into the seasonal variation in erosion of relatively stable gullies covered by vegetation in semi-arid regions. (c) 2025 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
UT WOS:001519093700008
ER

PT J
AU Meaza, H
   Ghebreyohannes, T
   Tesfamariam, Z
   Gebresamuel, G
   Demissie, B
   Gebregziabher, D
   Nyssen, J
AF Meaza, Hailemariam
   Ghebreyohannes, Tesfaalem
   Tesfamariam, Zbelo
   Gebresamuel, Girmay
   Demissie, Biadgilgn
   Gebregziabher, Dawit
   Nyssen, Jan
TI The effects of armed conflict on natural resources and conservation
   measures in Tigray, Northern Ethiopia
DE War; Bomb crater; Deforestation; Stone bunds; Land degradation; Building
   back better
ID ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS; SOIL-EROSION; WAR; WARFARE; WILDLIFE; CONTEXT;
   COVER
AB A heavy armed conflict erupted in Tigray region of Ethiopia in 2020, and the crisis continued up to 2022. This study investigates the impacts of this crisis on the status of natural resources, and Soil and Water Conservation (SWC) efforts. We collected primary data through field observations, measurements, interviews and group discussions during the wartime. We also reviewed published articles and official archives to complement the primary data, which were often challenging to obtain due to the war. We found that vegetated landscapes were damaged by artillery fire and bombings. The average depth of the surveyed bomb craters along the asphalts was 1.15 +/- 0.47 m (n 1/4 16), whereas the average surface diameter of the craters and their rim was 2.66 +/- 0.67 m. In addition, the construction of numerous military trenches along croplands and hillsides exposed the soil particles into erosion and water pollution. The conflict also halted SWC efforts on various land uses, which were carried out annually during peacetime. For instance, 20,591 km/year of stone bunds were not constructed per year due to the crisis. Moreover, terraces and stone bunds were demolished to construct temporary ground fortifications. Indirectly, the critical energy crisis further increased pressure on forests. In this context, the poor farmers shift their livelihood strategies from the long-term sustainability to immediate economic recovery during the critical time. To conclude, the pathways of the warfare undermined the status of natural resources, and the ongoing decades of re-greening programs. Therefore, our ground-based findings can be used to prioritize and rehabilitate the war-damaged landscape services. (c) 2024 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY- NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
UT WOS:001458911900001
ER

PT J
AU de Almeida, GPM
   Rodrigues, MB
   Buarque, DC
   Föeger, LB
   Fagundes, HD
   Fan, FM
AF de Almeida, Gabriella Passamani Moreira
   Rodrigues, Murilo Brazzali
   Buarque, Diogo Costa
   Foeger, Lizandra Broseghini
   Fagundes, Hugo de Oliveira
   Fan, Fernando Mainardi
TI Comparison of approaches using MUSLE, USLE-M and RUSLE2 for large-scale
   hydrosedimentological modelling
DE MGB-SED; Soil loss; Erosivity; Erosion
ID SOIL-EROSION; SEDIMENT YIELD; RAINFALL EROSIVITY; RUNOFF; EVENT; INDEX;
   WEPP
AB Mathematical models have been used to understand sediment dynamics in river basins. An important part of these models refers to equations for estimating soil loss. In this sense, there are different formulations in the literature, however, no studies have been identified that have compared soil loss models for daily hydrosedimentological simulation and in large basins. The Large Basin Sediment Model (MGB-SED) is a hydrosedimentological model that uses the MUSLE to calculate daily sediment generation and subsequent sediment propagation in rivers. In this study, the MGB-SED model was used to assess whether the USLE-M and/or RUSLE2 equations, incorporated into its source code, provide more accurate estimates of daily sediment production on large scales, compared to MUSLE. The results indicated that the three formulations were able to represent the spatial variability and temporal dynamics of suspended sediment in the Doce River basin. Performance varied, but MUSLE achieved KGE > 0.5 at most stations. USLE-M best represented the solid discharge peaks, while MUSLE best represented the minimum suspended sediment concentrations (SSC), ensuring a better statistical fit. The better performance of MUSLE was associated with the fact that it uses surface runoff as the erosivity factor and is easier to apply than USLE-M and RUSLE2. The greater applicability of MUSLE is especially in conditions of unavailability or scarcity of data for an estimate of daily rainfall erosivity, which is necessary for the use of USLE-M and RUSLE2. However, the three equations can be used as tools to help managers devise effective strategies for water and soil recovery and conservation.(c) 2025 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation and China Water and Power Press. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/ 4.0/).
UT WOS:001756190200001
ER

PT J
AU Assareh, M
   Yavari, P
   Jamil, M
   Rafiei, B
   Assareh, E
AF Assareh, Mohammad
   Yavari, Pouria
   Jamil, Mohsin
   Rafiei, Behroz
   Assareh, Ehsanolah
TI Thermodynamic analysis of a multiple energy production system based on
   geothermal energy for commissioning in Canada and optimization by
   response surface method (RSM)
DE Geothermal energy; Multi energy production system; Modified organic
   rankine cycle; Liquid hydrogen
ID HYDROGEN; SOLAR; POWER; PERFORMANCE; EXERGY; WATER; ELECTRICITY;
   GENERATION; PLANT
AB The thermodynamic analysis of a geothermal -based integrated energy system to produce liquid hydrogen, cooling, hot water, and power was presented in this study. The investigated system consists geothermal subsystems, a modified organic Rankine cycle (ORC), a PEM electrolyzer, and a liquid hydrogen storage source. Different organic fluids including refrigerants R113, R123, and R134a were investigated to increase the system performance. Analysis of organic fluids showed that the best organic fluid is R123 because it helps to increase the performance of the system. The authors employed the Design -Expert software and RSM for optimum results purposes, and the objective functions were chosen to be exergy efficiency (EE) and cost rate (CR). Following introduction of design variables, the mass flow rate of input to the evaporator, the temperature of input to heat recovery vapor generator, turbine efficiency, turbine input temperature, evaporator pinch point temperature, and pump efficiency, their impact on the system 's performance were investigated. The optimal values for EE and CR were ultimately found to be 43.91 % and 45.12 $/h, respectively. Also, in this research, seven regions within Canada were investigated for the launch of the proposed system. The studied cities were Victoria, Vancouver, Regina, St. John 's, Dawson Creek, Whitehorse, and Port Alberni. Finally, Regina was chosen because of the system 's superior performance in electricity production at a reasonable cost in that area. The environmental results showed that the presented energy system in Regina city could help to expand 5 ha of green space by producing electricity at the rate of 4993.03 MWh in one year. The findings indicated that implementing the suggested system in Regina would help prevent 1018.6 tons of CO 2 /MWh from being emitted into the environment yearly, only by chipping in 24445.9 $/ton of CO 2 per year.
UT WOS:001247991600001
ER

PT J
AU Moore, M
   Locke, MA
   Jenkins, M
   Steinriede, RW
   McChesney, DS
AF Moore, Matt
   Locke, Martin A.
   Jenkins, Michael
   Steinriede, Robert W.
   McChesney, Daniel S.
TI Dredging effects on selected nutrient concentrations and ecoenzymatic
   activity in two drainage ditch sediments in the lower Mississippi River
   Valley
DE Phosphorus; FDA; Denitrification; Mehlich III; Microbial Metabolism
ID PHOSPHORUS-SORPTION; SOIL; TRANSPORT; NITRIFICATION; STOICHIOMETRY;
   RUNOFF; FATE
AB Agricultural drainage ditches are conduits between production acreage and receiving aquatic systems. Often overlooked for their mitigation capabilities, agricultural drainage ditches provide an important role for nutrient transformation via microbial metabolism. Variations in ecoenzyme activities have been used to elucidate microbial metabolism and resource demand of microbial communities to better understand the relationship between altered nutrient ratios and microbial activity in aquatic ecosystems. Two agricultural drainage ditches, one in the northeast portion of the Arkansas Delta and the other in the lower Mississippi Delta, were monitored for a year. Sediment samples were collected prior to each ditch being dredged (cleaned), and subsequent post-dredging samples occurred as soon as access was available. Seasonal samples were then collected throughout a year to examine effects of dredging on selected nutrient concentrations and ecoenzymatic activity recovery in drainage ditch sediments. Phosphorus concentrations in sediments after dredging decreased 33-66%, depending on ditch and phosphorus extraction methodology. Additionally, ecoenzymatic activity was significantly decreased in most sediment samples after dredging. Fluorescein diacetate hydrolysis activity, an estimate of total microbial activity, decreased 56-67% after dredging in one of the two ditches. Many sample sites also had significant phosphorus and ecoenzymatic activity differences between the post-dredge samples and the year-long follow-up samples. Results indicate microbial metabolism in dredged drainage ditches may take up to a year or more to recover to pre-dredged levels. Likewise, while sediment nutrient concentrations may be decreased through dredging and removal, runoff and erosion events over time tend to quickly replenish nutrient concentrations in replaced sediments. Understanding nutrient dynamics and microbial metabolism within agricultural drainage ditches is a crucial step toward addressing issues of nutrient enrichment in aquatic receiving systems, especially those contributing to the Gulf of Mexico. (C) 2017 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation and China Water and Power Press. Production and Hosting by Elsevier B.V. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC ND license.
UT WOS:000413332200003
ER

PT J
AU Terra, BD
   Araújo, FG
AF Terra, Bianca de Freitas
   Araujo, Francisco Gerson
TI A preliminary fish assemblage index for a transitional river-reservoir
   system in southeastern Brazil
DE Monitoring; Reservoirs; Bioassessment; River-Reservoir Fish Assemblage
   Index
ID BIOTIC INTEGRITY IBI; RIO-DE-JANEIRO; BIOLOGICAL INTEGRITY; MULTIMETRIC
   INDEX; TROPICAL RIVER; LITTORAL-ZONE; WATER-QUALITY; STREAMS; LAKES;
   COMMUNITY
AB Large river-reservoir systems are some of the most difficult aquatic ecosystems to assess because: (1) they typically lack minimally disturbed reference sites; (2) the reservoirs are not natural systems to begin with; and (3) reservoirs with high exchange rates are transitional systems between rivers and lakes. These features are further complicated in Brazil where fish species taxonomy is incomplete (let alone fully described ecologically), where waters naturally have high organic and thermal loadings, and where dams and reservoirs provide most of the nation's electricity and water supplies. As a first step towards generating a biological tool for assessing the effects of reservoirs on rivers, we developed a preliminary River-Reservoir Fish Assemblage Index (RRFAI) in a transitional river-reservoir system in southeastern Brazil. To do so, we gill-netted fish monthly between October 2006 and September 2007 (excluding May and July 2007) immediately upriver of the reservoir, in the upper reservoir, in the lower reservoir, and immediately downriver of the reservoir. In developing our RRFAI we sought fish assemblage metrics to represent ecological characteristics including richness, habitat, trophic, tolerance, and resilience guilds. Despite clear differences in fish assemblage composition between river and reservoir sites, we found 9 metrics common to both systems that were nonredundant and had low sampling variability (number of native species, number of characiform species, number of siluriform species, % omnivorous individuals, % invertivorous individuals, % non-native carnivorous individuals, % intolerant individuals, % tolerant individuals, number of tolerant species). Fish assemblage condition was significantly and consistently lower in the lower reservoir. There was no significant difference between the dry and wet season in RRFAI scores, suggesting that a single season sample should usually suffice. Further research is needed along distinct disturbance gradients in multiple river-reservoir systems in Brazil to confirm the sensitivity of our preliminary RRFAI for assessing the physical and chemical habitat disturbances common to such systems. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000287291100013
ER

PT J
AU Kalús, D
   Mucková, V
   Straková, Z
   Ingeli, R
   Antosova, N
   Stastny, P
   Dubek, M
   Füri, M
   Bolcek, M
AF Kalus, Daniel
   Muckova, Veronika
   Strakova, Zuzana
   Ingeli, Rastislav
   Antosova, Nad'a
   Stastny, Patrik
   Dubek, Marek
   Furi, Maria
   Bolcek, Martin
TI Energy Sustainability, Resilience, and Climate Adaptability of Modular
   and Panelized Buildings with a Lightweight Envelope Integrating Active
   Thermal Protection: Part 2-Design and Implementation of an Experimental
   Prototype of a Building Module for Modular Buildings
DE active thermal protection (ATP); thermal barrier (TB); energy
   multifunctional facades (EMFs); renewable energy sources (RES);
   sustainability; resilience; adaptability; experimental prototype;
   building module
AB The integration of energy-active elements into the building envelope in the form of large-area heating/cooling, active thermal protection (ATP), thermal barriers (TB), and TABS represents a technical solution that is consistent with the principles of energy sustainability, resilience, and adaptability to climate change and ensures affordable and clean energy for all while protecting the climate in the context of the UN Sustainable Development Goals. The aim and innovation of our research is to develop energy multifunctional facades (EMFs) that are capable of performing a dual role, which includes the primary known energy functions of end elements and the additional innovative ability to serve as a source of heat/cooling/electricity. This new function of EMFs will facilitate heat dissipation from overheated facade surfaces, preheating of hot water, and electricity generation for the operation of building energy systems through integrated photovoltaic components. The theoretical assumptions and hypotheses presented in our previous research work must be verified by experimental measurements with predictions of the optimal operation of building energy systems. Most existing studies on thermal barriers are based on calculations. However, there are few empirical measurements that quantify the benefits of ATP in real operation and specify the conditions under which different types of ATP are feasible. In this article, we present the development, design, and implementation of an experimental prototype of a prefabricated building module with integrated energy-active elements. The aim is to fill the knowledge gaps by providing a comprehensive framework that includes the development, research, design, and implementation of combined energy systems for buildings. The design of energy systems will be developed in BIM. An important result of this research is the development of a technological process for the implementation of a contact insulation system with integrated ATP in modular and panel buildings with a lightweight envelope.
UT WOS:001535933100001
ER

PT C
AU Putri, S
   Moazeni, F
   Khazaei, J
AF Putri, Saskia
   Moazeni, Faegheh
   Khazaei, Javad
GP IEEE
TI Operational Resilience Enhancement of Water-Energy Microgrids via
   ReserveMax Nonlinear Model Predictive Control
DE Water-energy nexus; water distribution system; grid-connected microgrid;
   power reserve; demand response.
AB This paper presents a formulation of simultaneous control and model for an integrated water-energy microgrid system, enhancing the power reserve through optimal pump scheduling and power dispatch. Leveraging the predictive capability of nonlinear model predictive control (NMPC), the closed-loop control framework maximizes power reserve in a safe and cost-effective manner for water distribution systems (WDS) and grid-tied microgrids (MG). To evaluate system resilience, two performance metrics are introduced: the Energy Reserve Index (ERI), which quantifies the system's ability to meet critical power demands, and the Stored Resource Availability Index (SRAI), which assesses long-term resource sufficiency by measuring stored water and energy reserves relative to safety thresholds. Despite seasonal variations in water demand and renewable generation, the proposed NMPC ensures optimal pump flow rates and power dispatch, consistently meeting water and power demands while satisfying operational constraints and power reserves. Compared to an economic dispatch open-loop strategy, the proposed control achieves 20% cost reduction while simultaneously increasing energy and water reserves by 30% and 20%, respectively, demonstrating significant improvements in system performance and resilience.
UT WOS:001719901600431
ER

PT C
AU Abdelmalak, M
   Thapa, J
   Benidris, M
AF Abdelmalak, Michael
   Thapa, Jitendra
   Benidris, Mohammed
BE Leonowicz, Z
TI Resilience Assessment Approach for Transmission Systems Considering
   Uncertainties of Ice Storms
DE Extreme weather event; ice storms; resilience; spatiotemporal fragility
AB Ice storms have a wide range of impacts on power systems ranging from long outage times to major equipment failures. The diverse spatiotemporal characteristics of ice storms create high uncertainties in system performance and resilience level. Recent extended outages of various interdependent systems such as, power and water systems, due to ice storms have called for further investigation and resilience assessment approaches. In this paper, a planning-based resilience assessment framework is utilized to assess the resilience level of transmission systems. First, a spatiotemporal ice storm model is used to simulate various scenarios of ice storms. Then, a fragility model is implemented to evaluate the probability of failure of system components in terms of weather parameters. Finally, a quantitative resilience assessment method based on combinatorial enumeration is applied to compute a resilience index for the system. The proposed algorithm is carried out on the IEEE 30-bus system mapped on the Eastern region of the United States. Numerous ice storm scenarios are simulated based on real weather-data. The proposed algorithm is able to assess system resilience characteristics considering uncertainties of ice storms.
UT WOS:000784128100001
ER

PT C
AU Makrakis, GM
   Roberson, D
   Kolias, C
AF Makrakis, Georgios Michail
   Roberson, Dakota
   Kolias, Constantinos
GP IEEE
TI WIPP: Towards IEC 62443-3-3 Network Compliance via Software-Defined
   Networking in Digital Substations
DE software defined networking; SDN; IEC 62443; cyber resilience;
   cybersecurity; compliance
ID COMMUNICATION; AUTOMATION
AB Threats against critical infrastructure in various sectors (power, water, etc.) are constantly present as their cyber-physical control and communication systems introduce a combination of modern and legacy components. Various security standards facilitate the application of security controls in such environments, with systematic guidance about best practices, and priorities for requirements implementation. This article provides a model to assist the compliance of substation automation networks with the IEC 62443-3-3 standard by employing the Software-Defined Networking (SDN) paradigm. First, we explore how the requirements of the standard can be fulfilled by an asset owner by applying SDN solutions. Next, we present the applicability of such a model to a modern smart grid through the context of a distribution system substation. The model will be used to implement the necessary functionality for asset owners to meet the requirements of the industry standard and improve the grid's resilience, while at the same time automating a multitude of network security capabilities.
UT WOS:001821279200011
ER

PT J
AU Moncada, W
   Pereda, A
   Masías, M
   Lagos, M
   Portal-Quicaña, E
   Aldana, C
   Saavedra, Y
   Saavedra, E
AF Moncada, Wilmer
   Pereda, Alex
   Masias, Manuel
   Lagos, Manuel
   Portal-Quicana, Edwin
   Aldana, Cristhian
   Saavedra, Yesenia
   Saavedra, Edwin
TI Estimation of soil moisture of a high Andean wetland ecosystem (Bofedal)
   with geo-radar data and In-Situ measurements, Ayacucho - Peru
DE Ground-penetrating radar; Bofedal; Subsoil; Soil moisture; Dielectric
   permittivity; Reflected wave amplitude
ID APACHETA MICRO-BASIN; VALIDATION; LANDSAT
AB High Andean ecosystems within microbasins serve as crucial areas for water recharge, containing both surface and subsurface moisture. However, these ecosystems are currently under threat due to overgrazing, degradation, and the impacts of climate change. The objective is to validate the subsoil moisture of bofedal estimated using ground-penetrating radar (GPR) data in comparison to in-situ measurements obtained with a soil moisture meter (SMM) in the Apacheta microbasin of the Ayacucho region. The validation method involves comparing soil moisture values obtained with the SMM, with the estimated dielectric permittivity (DP) values from GPR surveys along four transects (T) in a bofedal. Reflected wave amplitude data are converted to DP values to identify water pockets (70 < DP < 81) and saturated soil moisture (10 < DP < 40). An analysis of the determination coefficient R-2 and the Kappa index (kappa) was conducted between both groups of bofedal subsoil moisture data along the four surveyed transects at depths ranging from 0 to 24 cm that contain water and saturated moisture. T1 contains a volume of 1, 16 m(3) (47.85 %), T2 has 0.98 m(3) (46.6 %), T3 lacks water (40.8 %), and T4 holds 0.63 m(3) (31.45 %). The correlation of DP data with SMM for T1 (R-2 = 0.801), T2 (R-2 = 0.949), T3 (R-2 = 0.837) y T4 (R-2 = 0.842) implies that the SMM measurements significantly explain the estimated DP. Moreover, the kappa test demonstrated good agreement reliability between both observations made with GPR and SMM, with kappa = 0.763; [95% CI : 0.471 - 1.055], indicating that the GPR method for measuring subsoil moisture is acceptable with an 87.5% confidence level. (c) 2024 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY- NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
UT WOS:001427893100001
ER

PT J
AU Silabi, MZ
   Sadeghi, SH
   Vafakhah, M
AF Silabi, Mostafa Zabihi
   Sadeghi, Seyed Hamidreza
   Vafakhah, Mehdi
TI Soil erosion elasticity initiative for prioritizing sub-watersheds
DE Ecologic elasticity; Erosion threshold; Integrated watershed management;
   Watershed elasticity
ID GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION-SYSTEM; ANALYTICAL HIERARCHY PROCESS;
   VEGETATION COVER; GIS; PRECIPITATION; RESTORATION; MANAGEMENT; CLIMATE;
   IMPACT; DENUDATION
AB Quantitative evaluation of soil erosion is necessary to analyze the destructive effects of soil erosion and to identify priority sub-watersheds in different climatic and environmental conditions. The variability of soil erosion thresholds introduced as Erosion elasticity (Ee) can be used to develop reliable management strategies in various temporal and spatial scales. Ee is a potential degree of soil erosion in an area representing the magnitude between maximum and minimum erosion rates. However, the comprehensive prioritization of sub-watersheds according to environmental changes and the concept of Ee is yet to be done. Therefore, the present study introduced the Ee-based approach based on the watershed's maximum and minimum soil erosion capability. The prioritization of the sub-watersheds of the Shazand Watershed of Iran has been exemplified, and the associated results were compared to those of conventional annual soil erosion zoning. Towards that, the mean annual soil erosion and corresponding changes of the study watershed were estimated according to the dynamic changes of vegetation cover and rainfall erosivity. Prioritizing 24-study sub-watersheds was then comparatively conducted using mean annual soil erosion and erosion elasticity approaches. The results of the RUSLE application showed that the soil erosion of the Shazand Watershed varied between 0 and 72 t ha-1 year-1 with a mean annual erosion of 14.35 t ha-1 year-1. The results further revealed that the worst and the best combination of soil erosion factors cause +151% and-62% changes in mean annual soil erosion of the Shazand Watershed. Based on the amount of soil erosion method, sub-watersheds 11, 14, and 23 were placed in the highest priorities, and sub-watersheds 5, 6, 16, and 17 are the lowest priority for management measures. In addition, the results of the Ee approach showed that 28% of the study sub-watersheds were placed in high and relatively high priorities, respectively, and sub-watersheds 9, 13, 18, 19, and 23 stand in the lowest priority. The Ee approach effectively identified the critical sub-watersheds to reduce their tendency to destructive conditions and take appropriate measures to reduce their soil erosion and move them towards ideal conditions. The results can help planners and managers implement the best management measures in priority sub-watersheds, saving time and cost. (c) 2024 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
UT WOS:001459596500001
ER

PT J
AU Montanher, OC
   Minaki, C
   de Morais, ES
   Silva, JD
   Pereira, P
AF Montanher, Otavio Cristiano
   Minaki, Cintia
   de Morais, Eduardo Souza
   Silva, Juliana de Paula
   Pereira, Paulo
TI Geosystemic Impacts of the Extreme Rainfall Linked to the El Nino
   2015/2016 Event in Northern Parana, Brazil
DE erosion; flooding; resilience; return period; connectivity
ID CONNECTIVITY; GEOMORPHOLOGY; DISASTERS
AB The El Nino episode between September 2015 and February 2016 caused abundant rainfall in the state of Parana in southern Brazil. In this study, we map the greatest magnitude of this climatic event and the respective geosystem responses in the landscape. For this purpose, 32 precipitation series were analyzed (1981-2016). The parameter most indicative of extreme rainfall events during the El Nino period was the six-month accumulated precipitation. The return period (RP) of this parameter was calculated and spatialized using kriging. The results show that a longitudinal strip of 450 km by 140 km had rainfall with RP > 30 years, reaching maximums greater than 150 years. Surveys performed in the field, with aerial images, official sources and media news show a great diversity of effects caused by rainfall, such as road blockages, interruption of water and power supply, and erosion in urban and rural areas. It is concluded that the stability of regional geosystems was disrupted because of extreme rainfall values, so that the northwest region of Parana had less resilience compared to the north-central and Pioneer North regions, due to the differences between the lithologies and soils of these regions.
UT WOS:001063709700001
ER

PT J
AU Awaad, HA
   Mansour, E
   Akrami, M
   Fath, HES
   Javadi, AA
   Negm, A
AF Awaad, Hassan A.
   Mansour, Elsayed
   Akrami, Mohammad
   Fath, Hassan E. S.
   Javadi, Akbar A.
   Negm, Abdelazim
TI Availability and Feasibility of Water Desalination as a Non-Conventional
   Resource for Agricultural Irrigation in the MENA Region: A Review
DE solar desalination technology; saltwater; greenhouse; water quality;
   productivity; crops; climate change
ID SOLAR DESALINATION; ENHANCING RESILIENCE; EGYPTIAN CONDITIONS; NILE
   DELTA; QUALITY; SYSTEM; BARLEY; REUSE; PERFORMANCE; GREENHOUSES
AB Many countries in the MENA region (Middle East and North Africa) are facing water scarcity, which poses a great challenge to agricultural production. Furthermore, water scarcity is projected to increase due to climate change, particularly in arid and semi-arid regions. The integration of solar power and water desalination systems in greenhouses to overcome water shortages is one of the preferred technologies in crop-growing areas. Crop growth control is done through sufficient management of environmental climatic variables as well as the quantity and quality of water and applied fertilisers with irrigation. Numerous crops such as cucumbers, tomatoes, peppers, lettuces, strawberries, flowers, and herbs can be grown under greenhouse conditions using desalinated water. This paper displays the state of the art in (i) solar-driven saltwater desalination to irrigate crops, (ii) the feasibility of water desalination for agriculture in the MENA region, (iii) the economics and environmental impacts of the desalination process, (iv) the quality of desalinated water compared with other non-conventional water resources and (v) recommendations for the future in the MENA region.
UT WOS:000584264900001
ER

PT C
AU Panta, D
   Wang, S
   Sapkota, A
   Ranganathan, P
AF Panta, Dikshya
   Wang, Sicheng
   Sapkota, Aditya
   Ranganathan, Prakash
GP IEEE
TI When Disasters Trigger Cyber Vulnerabilities: Mapping Physical-Digital
   Interdependencies in Critical Infrastructure Systems
DE Critical infrastructure resilience; cyber-physical systems security;
   GIS-driven workflow; disaster-cyber compound risk; cascading failure
   analysis; geospatial cybersecurity
ID ATTACKS
AB Critical infrastructure (CI) systems such as power, water, communications, and emergency services are increasingly exposed to compound risks in which natural disasters and cyber incidents interact and amplify one another. Traditional risk assessments often isolate physical and digital threats, overlooking the cascading dependencies that emerge when operational stress, emergency reconfiguration, and adversarial exploitation coincide. This study conducts a 2019-2025 scoping review and introduces a Geographic Information System (GIS) driven six-stage disastercyber compounding framework that characterizes, maps, and operationalizes compound risk across interdependent CI sectors. The framework integrates a common operating picture, analytic situational understanding, exposure mapping, threat-fingerprint encoding, detection and prioritization, and coordinated response, with an adaptive feedback loop to refine thresholds and libraries. The paper also outlines tabletop scenarios based on historical U.S. disaster-cyber events to illustrate the GIS workflow's coordination logic and inform continuous learning. The result is a practical, auditable approach that integrates disaster risk management and cybersecurity within a shared geospatial environment, enabling coordinated analysis and action under compound conditions.
UT WOS:001795082800059
ER

PT J
AU Raziei, A
   Hallinan, KP
   Brecha, RJ
AF Raziei, A.
   Hallinan, K. P.
   Brecha, R. J.
TI Clean energy utility for multifamily housing in a deregulated energy
   market
DE Energy efficiency; Renewable energy; Demand side management; Energy
   storage
ID SPLIT INCENTIVES; CONSUMPTION; BUILDINGS
AB Energy efficiency and renewable energy (EERE) investment in multifamily residences in the United States has not kept pace with investment in resident-owned facilities. Split incentives, where owners cannot benefit economically from energy cost savings for residences and resident investment in EERE is not feasible, have posed a significant barrier. A. clean energy utility is posited to circumvent this barrier. This utility would be responsible for power purchase from the grid, ideally as a real-time purchase agent from the grid manager; investment in energy efficiency and renewable energy; and demand management through control of water heating, as well as supply-side management through deployment of stored solar at near-peak grid power purchase cost. A clean energy fee is posed for recovery of costs, in contrast to typical consumption strategies (per kW h).
   A case study approach is employed to evaluate the feasibility of this type of utility of reducing carbon production in this building sector. Considered in the analysis is a 2008 multifamily facility located in the Midwest of the U.S., with apartment level interval meters for both power and water. Historical data from these meters were used to assess the savings and demand-side management potential from investments in improved efficiency lighting, refrigeration, heat pumps, and water heaters, as well as investments in solar PV and storage for supply-side management. The results show that the packaged retrofit EERE investment could yield costs for residents and profits for energy manager comparable to those in the current residential pricing scheme, while reducing grid-sourced energy by 42%. When solar PV and battery storage are added to the solution, it is shown that a clean energy fee structure can cost-effectively drive savings to over 54%. For new construction, even deeper cost effective savings are realizable. This research demonstrates the potential to drive deep energy savings in the multifamily building sector that can lower costs to residents through the establishment of clean energy utilities which recover investments in energy efficiency, demand management, and solar PV/battery systems through resident clean energy fees rather than consumption fees. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000381529400071
ER

PT J
AU Wu, T
   Li, YH
   Li, HK
   Zhu, M
   Lou, YC
   Yang, SY
   Cen, YF
   Sun, GF
   Gao, ZL
AF Wu, Tong
   Li, Yonghong
   Li, Haike
   Zhu, Meng
   Lou, Yongcai
   Yang, Shuyun
   Cen, Yunfeng
   Sun, Guanfang
   Gao, Zhaoliang
TI The effect of soil conservation measures on the sorting characteristics
   and transport mechanism of eroded sediment on spoil tips
DE Soil conservation measures; Sorting characteristics; Transport
   mechanism; Spoil tips
ID INTERRILL EROSION PROCESSES; PARTICLE-SIZE DISTRIBUTION; SELECTIVITY;
   FLOW; RAINFALL; RUNOFF; COVER; SLOPE; SHEET; CONSTRUCTION
AB Understanding the sorting characteristics and sediment transport mechanism in erosion process is of great significance for ensuring the stability of spoil tips and facilitating the vegetation recovery. However, the effect of soil conservation measures on the sorting characteristics and transport mechanism, especially on steep slopes, remains unclear. In this study, we carried out artificial runoff tests with inflow intensities of 8, 12, and 16 L min(-1) on steep spoil tips with a 32 degrees slope and loess soil to examine the effects of the common conservation measures, i.e. plant hedge (PH), fish scale pit (FS) and horizontal ditch (HD) and their combinations (PH-FS, PH-HD) on erosion processes. The results showed that, the boundary size of sediment suspension-saltation and bed load under different soil conservation measures was 81.54 mu m. Except for vegetated slopes, the other measures suppress approximately 1 %-7 % of suspended-jumping transport of sediment particles smaller than 81.54 mu m under most inflow conditions, effectively reducing the efficiency of sediment transport during the erosion process. At the same time, they could decrease the pulverizing effect of runoff on slope aggregates, consequently reduced the enrichment of sand (p < 0.05) and clay particles in the eroded sediment. This effect was more evident as the inflow intensity increased. Furthermore, two combined measures were more effective than any single engineering one (p < 0.05). Among which the PH-HD combination demonstrated the highest protective efficacy, reducing the transport of coarse particles and aggregates by approximately 4.83 %-7.98 %, thereby enhancing the stability and anti-erosive ability of the spoil tips. Our findings are expected to be useful for the optimal configuration of soil conservation measures and effective management for steep spoil tips. (c) 2025 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation and China Water and Power Press. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/ 4.0/).
UT WOS:001756191700001
ER

PT J
AU Imandoust, M
   Alghorayshi, STK
   Javidfar, M
   Asadi, B
   Jafarinasab, M
   Qezelbigloo, S
   Zahedi, R
AF Imandoust, Milad
   Alghorayshi, Seyed Taher Kermani
   Javidfar, Meysam
   Asadi, Behrang
   Jafarinasab, Mona
   Qezelbigloo, Sajad
   Zahedi, Rahim
TI Technical-economic analysis and optimization of multiple effect
   distillation system by solar energy conversion as the heat source
DE Multiple effect distillation; Process simulation; Optimization; MED-TVC;
   Solar energy
ID STEAM POWER-PLANT; MED-TVC; MULTIEFFECT DISTILLATION; PARABOLIC TROUGH;
   RO DESALINATION; WATER; PERFORMANCE; COMPRESSOR
AB The utilization of multi-effect distillation (MED) in thermal desalination processes is more widespread owing to lower energy consumption. The focus of this paper is to optimize the performance of MED through process optimization. It aims to identify the optimal operating conditions that result in maximum water and power production. Additionally, it investigates the potential of using solar renewable energy as a substitute for the current fossil energy source. Subsequently, a switch to solar energy was made with a focus on an economically viable approach. The research explored the best-suited collector and fluid for heat transfer among the 8 types of molten salt for use in the collector. Subsequently, an economic and sensitivity analysis was conducted using this procedure. The outcomes indicated that by enhancing the stated procedure, it was found that 27.93 Megawatt (MW) of heat would be required when 6938 ton/h of natural gas are burned. Additionally, the 4-effect MED process produced 6.123 MW of electricity and 116.5 cubic meters per hour (m(3)/h) of freshwater. The gain output ratio (GOR) of the process saw an uptick from 2.75 to 3.328, whereas MED efficiency showed progress from 13.76 to 49.218 %. The parabolic trough collector (PTC) collector outperforms the linear Fresnel collector (LFC) and solar dish (SD) collector in terms of efficiency among other results. To store heat for the rest of the day and night and supply thermal energy for the entire process, 155,542 square meters (m2) of this collector are necessary. Additionally, in regards to the thermal fluid of the PTC collector, coastal chemical registered heat transfer salt (HITEC salt), a commercial mixture of solar salt, has exhibited superior performance over other molten salts (for a total expenditure of 50 million dollars over two decades). In addition, the economic analysis has indicated a return rate of 32.46 % for the investment and a capital recovery period of 3.08 years for the process. The implementation of the mentioned process in renewable mode results in the avoidance of 18.5 tons per hour (ton/h) of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions.
UT WOS:001312453000001
ER

PT J
AU Aklan, M
   de Fraiture, C
   Hayde, LG
AF Aklan, Musaed
   de Fraiture, Charlotte
   Hayde, Laszlo G.
TI Why we should revitalize indigenous water harvesting systems: Lessons
   learned
DE Indigenous water harvesting systems; Water scarcity; Floods; New
   technologies; Arid environments; Groundwater
ID SOIL-WATER; IRRIGATION; ANCIENT; CONSERVATION
AB It is generally believed that problems surrounding water scarcity led earlier generations to develop and employ a variety of indigenous rainwater harvesting (RWH) techniques. This paper is based on literature review and aims to discuss the current status and impact of these widely practiced indigenous RWH systems with references to archaeological case studies from different agro-ecological areas. Our review shows that indigenous RWH systems are declining as a result of multiple factors but chiefly groundwater use, rural-urban migration, climate change, and changes in policy. However, our review also reveals that revitalized indigenous RWH systems can play an important role in alleviating water scarcity problems and sustaining livelihoods in both dry and developing regions. While new technologies have negatively affected several indigenous RWH systems when combined with traditional knowledge they can help to modernize indigenous RWH practices to make them more resilient, efficient, and productive. (c) 2024 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY- NC-ND license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).
UT WOS:001426917600001
ER

PT J
AU Silva, DR
   da Luz, LG
   Moura-Neto, JA
AF Silva, Dirceu Reis
   da Luz, Lucas Gobetti
   Moura-Neto, Jose A.
TI Lessons from the catastrophic floods in southern Brazil: geographic and
   environmental factors, vulnerabilities, and the resilience of nephrology
   services during natural disasters
DE disaster planning; floods; health services accessibility; kidney
   diseases; renal dialysis
AB Purpose of reviewIn April and May of 2024, the state of Rio Grande do Sul in southern Brazil faced one of the most devastating natural disasters in its history. Torrential rains caused catastrophic flooding, affecting over 2.4 million people and damaging critical infrastructure. Among the most vulnerable were individuals with chronic kidney disease, particularly those dependent on dialysis or immunosuppressive therapy following kidney transplantation. This narrative report describes the impact of the floods on nephrology services, highlights systemic vulnerabilities, and outlines the responses by the Brazilian Society of Nephrology, healthcare providers, government authorities and other stakeholders.Recent findingsDrawing on field reports and institutional data, the article details breakdowns in transportation, communication, water and power supply, and the cascading challenges affecting dialysis provision. It also documents mitigation efforts, including patient relocation, resource reallocation, inter-institutional collaboration, and telemedicine deployment. Although no deaths due to lack of dialysis were reported, the crisis exposed the fragility of health service continuity in extreme events.SummaryThis event underscores the urgent need to incorporate disaster preparedness into nephrology service planning. Strategies must be tailored to the specific geographic and infrastructural contexts of each region and integrated into broader public health emergency frameworks. The lessons learned offer valuable insights for strengthening healthcare system resilience in the face of climate-related disasters.
UT WOS:001582732700001
ER

PT C
AU Small, DS
AF Small, Dorothy S.
GP ASME
TI Technical Considerations in a Zero Energy Home Dorothy S. Small
AB Building a zero energy home requires several major considerations: site selection for the home; considerations to use less; conservation of what you produce; and evaluation the best choices of renewable resources. This paper discusses the use of climate data collection software, heat loss and heat gain considerations and software; how to achieve a zero energy building and qualifying as a LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) Certified Platinum home.
   Site selection is the first step. This first step can be taken after you have identified your goals. What alternative energy systems do you want to use? Do you want to use more than one alternative soul-cc? What other site considerations are important? In my case, I wanted to use solar energy as my primary alternative energy source. Why? I want comfort, reliability and ease of use. Other alternatives may require more maintenance. Wind power will be a second source that will be incorporated to produce electricity when the PV system can not produce. The site selected is a South facing Mountain that has a steady breeze most of the time. Another consideration for me is the ability to use earth-sheltering as a measure of high efficiency construction. The south-facing mountain also provides the opportunity to "nestle" into the mountainside. Calculations and basis of design are presented.
   Using less is a key mindset that we all need to 0 move toward. Using, less does not mean that You suffer. This house will be comfortable year round with little effort because the house uses passive solar design for lighting and space heating, active solar hot water for additional heating of the floor and domestic hot water, and PV/wind/biodiesel generator backup to generate electricity for lighting and other typical electrical loads. The construction materials provide high R-values and green product. that contribute to excellent indoor air quality. SIPs (Structural Insulated Panels) will be used as the structural components for the walls and roof. All electrical appliances, refrigerator, lighting, and washer/dryer were selected to use less electricity and water. Data describing the energy requirements are provided.
   Reuse all that you can. I am incorporating a masonry heater, also known as a Russian Fireplace. The combustion efficiency of the masonry fireplace is typically 92-94 percent with very low emissions. The masonry fireplace will provide passive mass for passive release of the woodburning energy during the evening and heat hot water coils in the fireplace as well (as the hot water backup system). The use of hard woods from the land will provide heat overnight, heat for cooking and supply additional BTUs for domestic hot water and radiant heat. Many of the building materials that are selected for construction are from the land; stone and whole cut wood from the land will be used for esthetic appeal and thermal mass thereby reducing harmful manufacturer's emissions.
   My site is an excellent site I-or a hybrid solar and wind power (with a biodiesel generator as backup) system. The orientation and wind profile of the land is optimal for solar and wind energy applications. Site specific data and optimization of active solar, passive solar and PV/wind systems are presented. Life cycle costs arc presented to show the cost comparison using Years-to-Payback and Return on Investment approaches for the energy systems and LEED certification costs for new construction.
UT WOS:000265479400030
ER

PT J
AU Tugcu, M
   Tuglular, ZS
AF Tugcu, Murat
   Tuglular, Z. Serhan
TI When the earth shakes unexpectedly: impact on nephrology services and
   patients
DE dialysis in disasters; disaster preparedness; disaster-related chronic
   kidney disease care; hemodialysis in disasters; peritoneal dialysis in
   disasters
ID RENAL DISASTER RELIEF; KIDNEY-DISEASE; TASK-FORCE; DIALYSIS; JAPAN
AB Purpose of reviewThis review examines the impact of earthquakes on nephrology services and patients, highlighting the urgent need for integrated disaster preparedness in renal care. With earthquakes increasing in frequency and affecting densely populated regions, the relevance of this topic to both clinical practice and policy has never been greater.Recent findingsEarthquakes disrupt dialysis infrastructure, impede access to care, and create surges in acute kidney injury (AKI) due to crush syndrome. Hemodialysis (HD) services are highly vulnerable to power, water, and transportation failures, whereas peritoneal dialysis (PD) offers greater resilience but faces hygiene and supply challenges. Special populations - pediatric patients, transplant recipients, and displaced persons - face unique vulnerabilities. Global experiences demonstrate that flexible modalities, patient education, and coordinated international responses can mitigate risks. Despite this, PD remains underutilized and disaster-specific planning is often lacking.SummaryEarthquakes expose critical weaknesses in nephrology systems but also provide lessons in resilience. Proactive strategies - including PD-first policies, interoperable patient registries, emergency kits, and mobile dialysis units - are essential to protect kidney patients during future disasters. Integrating nephrology into disaster frameworks is both a clinical imperative and a humanitarian necessity.
UT WOS:001582732700013
ER

PT J
AU Genge, B
   Siaterlis, C
   Hohenadel, M
AF Genge, B.
   Siaterlis, C.
   Hohenadel, M.
TI Impact of Network Infrastructure Parameters to the Effectiveness of
   Cyber Attacks Against Industrial Control Systems
DE cyber attacks; Industrial Control Systems; SCADA; security
AB The fact that modern Networked Industrial Control Systems (NICS) depend on Information and Communication Technologies (ICT), is well known. Although many studies have focused on the security of SCADA systems, today we still lack the proper understanding of the effects that cyber attacks have on NICS. In this paper we identify the communication and control logic implementation parameters that influence the outcome of attacks against NICS and that could be used as effective measures for increasing the resilience of industrial installations. The implemented scenario involves a powerful attacker that is able to send legitimate Modbus packets/commands to control hardware in order to bring the physical process into a critical state, i.e. dangerous, or more generally unwanted state of the system. The analysis uses a Boiling Water Power Plant to show that the outcome of cyber attacks is influenced by network delays, packet losses, background traffic and control logic scheduling time. The main goal of this paper is to start an exploration of cyber-physical effects in particular scenarios. This study is the first of its kind to analyze cyber-physical systems and provides insight to the way that the cyber realm affects the physical realm.
UT WOS:000308334500007
ER

PT J
AU Yin, YZ
   Val, DV
   Zou, QP
   Yurchenko, D
AF Yin, Yunzhu
   Val, Dimitri V.
   Zou, Qingping
   Yurchenko, Daniil
TI Resilience of Critical Infrastructure Systems to Floods: A Coupled
   Probabilistic Network Flow and LISFLOOD-FP Model
DE infrastructure networks; urban flood; urban resilience; climate changes;
   sea level rise; natural hazard; flood modelling; LISFLOOD-FP; network
   flow model; cascading effects
ID SEA-LEVEL RISE; INTERDEPENDENT INFRASTRUCTURES; STORM-SURGE; TIDE-SURGE;
   COASTAL; MANAGEMENT; SIMULATION; EVENTS; HAZARD; IMPACT
AB In this paper, a network-flow model was constructed to simulate the performance of interdependent critical infrastructure systems during flood hazards, when there is shortage of commodities such as electrical power and water. The model enabled us to control the distribution of commodities among different consumers whose demand cannot be fully met. Incorporating time-variance in the model allowed for evaluating the time evolution of the functional level of the infrastructure systems and quantifying their resilience. As a demonstration of the model's capability, the network model was coupled with a raster-based hydraulic flooding model in the way of Monte Carlo simulations. It was then used to investigate the cascading effects of flood-related failures of individual infrastructure assets on the performance of the critical infrastructure systems of a coastal community under different flooding scenarios and future climate impacts. The coupled modelling framework is essential for correctly assessing the interdependences and cascading effects in the infrastructure systems in the case of flood hazards. While in the considered example, the extent of inundation becomes less severe with a changing climate, the risk to infrastructure does not recede because of the cascading effects. This behaviour could not be captured by the flood model alone.
UT WOS:000771203400001
ER

PT J
AU Ferrario, E
   Zio, E
AF Ferrario, E.
   Zio, E.
TI Goal Tree Success Tree-Dynamic Master Logic Diagram and Monte Carlo
   simulation for the safety and resilience assessment of a multistate
   system of systems
DE Physical resilience; Multistate model; System of systems; Goal Tree
   Success Tree-Dynamic Master; Logic Diagram; Monte Carlo simulation;
   Seismic Probabilistic Risk Assessment
ID DECAY; RISK; LAW
AB We extend a system-of-systems framework previously proposed by the authors to evaluate the safety and physical resilience of a critical plant exposed to risk of external events. The extension is based on a multistate representation of the different degrees of damage of the individual components and the different degrees of safety of the critical plant. We resort to a hierarchical model representation by Goal Tree Success Tree-Dynamic Master Logic Diagram (GTST-DMLD), adapting it to the framework of analysis proposed. We perform the quantitative evaluation of the model by Monte Carlo simulation. To the best of the author's knowledge this is the first time that a multistate framework of combined safety and resilience analysis relating the structural and functional behaviour of the components to the system function in a GTST-DMLD logic modelling of a system of systems is adopted in Seismic Probabilistic Risk Assessment. To illustrate the approach, we adopt a case study that considers the impacts produced by an earthquake and its aftershocks (the external events) on a nuclear power plant (the critical plant) embedded in the connected power and water distribution, and transportation networks which support its operation. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000331920700036
ER

PT J
AU Gomes, JG
   Sammarchi, S
   Yang, Q
   Yang, TQ
   Chong, CT
   Sousa, AM
   Lim, JS
   Li, J
AF Gomes, Joao Graca
   Sammarchi, Sergio
   Yang, Qiang
   Yang, Tianqi
   Chong, Cheng Tung
   Sousa, Ana Margarida
   Lim, Jeng Shiun
   Li, Jia
TI Maximising sustainability: Planning and optimisation strategies for
   achieving 100 % renewable energy communities in remote islands - A case
   study of Corvo Island, Portugal
DE Multi-energy optimisation; Renewable energy; Hydrogen; System
   integration; Remote islands; Smart communities
AB The development of smart communities in remote regions is often hindered by geographical constraints and challenges in energy access. This study focuses on the development of a novel optimisation model that sizes a 100 % renewable and autonomous smart energy community, in a remote island, which integrates heating, power and water supply. The model considers operational, technical, and geographical constraints and provides a comprehensive approach for energy demand prediction, system design and evaluation. Constrained non-linear optimisation is employed to formulate the problem, and historical weather, load demand, and power and heating generation prices data modelled hourly are used for validation. The approach is applied to Corvo Island, Azores archipelago, Portugal. Results show that developing a renewable-based system with solar thermalpowered heating is Corvo's most cost-competitive decarbonisation alternative (LCOE from <euro>0.2599/kWh to <euro>0.5605/kWh). The renewable-based system with hydrogen-powered heating has LCOE values in the range of <euro>0.35/kWh to <euro>1.06/kWh. This configuration could witness a significant reduction in aggregate costs through the commercialisation of oxygen, a byproduct of the hydrogen generation process. The optimisation model highlights the viability of sustainable energy solutions and guides power designers and decision-makers in fostering smart, resilient communities in remote regions and islands, ensuring sustainability in long-term lifecycles.
UT WOS:001425161300001
ER

PT J
AU Luke, J
   Franklin, RC
   Dyson, J
   Aitken, P
AF Luke, Jenny
   Franklin, Richard C.
   Dyson, Joanne
   Aitken, Peter
TI Building Toward a Disaster Resilient Health System: A Study of Hospital
   Resilience
DE hospital; resilience; assessment; hospital safety index; disaster;
   socio-natural disaster
ID PREPAREDNESS; LESSONS; CAPACITY
AB Objectives:This research evaluated the resilience of 6 tertiary and rural health facilities within a single Australian Health Service, using the World Health Organization (WHO) Hospital Safety Index (HSI). This adaptation of the HSI was compared with existing national accreditation and facility design Standards to assess disaster preparedness and identify opportunities for improvement. Methods:This cross-sectional descriptive study surveyed 6 hospitals that provide 24/7 emergency department and acute inpatient services. HSI assessments, comprising 151 previously validated criteria, were conducted by Health Service engineers and facility managers before being externally reviewed by independent disaster management professionals. Results:All facilities were found to be highly disaster resilient, with each recording high HSI scores. Variances in structure, architectural safety, continuity of critical services supply, and emergency plans were consistently identified. Power and water supply vulnerabilities are common to previously reported vulnerabilities in health facilities of developing countries. Conclusion:Clinical, engineering, and disaster management professionals assessed 6 Australian hospitals using the WHO HSI with each facility scoring highly, genuine vulnerabilities and practical opportunities for improvement were identified. This application of the WHO HSI, intended for use primarily in developing countries and disaster-affected regions, complimented and extended the existing Australian national health service accreditation and facility design Standards. These results support the expansion of existing assessment tools used to assess Australian health facility disaster preparedness and resilience.
UT WOS:000883172400001
ER

PT J
AU Lucas-Borja, ME
   -Alvarez, PAP
   Xu, XZ
   Carra, BG
   Zema, DA
AF Lucas-Borja, Manuel Esteban
   -Alvarez, Pedro Antonio Plaza
   Xu, Xiangzhou
   Carra, Bruno Gianmarco
   Zema, Demetrio Antonio
TI Exploring the factors influencing the hydrological response of soil
   after low and high-severity fires with post-fire mulching in
   Mediterranean forests
DE Wildfire; Prescribed fire; Soil cover; Soil properties; Soil water
   repellency; Infiltration rate; Surface runoff; Soil loss; Erosion
ID HYDRAULIC CONDUCTIVITY; WATER REPELLENCY; PRESCRIBED FIRE; VEGETATION
   RECOVERY; RUNOFF GENERATION; ORGANIC-MATTER; SURFACE RUNOFF;
   OVERLAND-FLOW; LAND-USE; HILLSLOPE-SCALE
AB Despite ample literature, the influence of the individual soil properties and covers on the hydrological response of burned soils of forests has not clearly identified. A clear understanding of the surface runoff and erosion rates altered by wildfires and prescribed fires is beneficial to identify the most suitable postfire treatment. This study has carried out a combined analysis of the hydrological response of soil and its driving factors in burned forests of Central-Eastern Spain. The pine stands of these forests were subjected to both prescribed fire and wildfire, and, in the latter case, to post-fire treatment with mulching. Moreover, simple multi-regression models are proposed to predict runoff and erosion in the experimental conditions. In the case of the prescribed burning, the fire had a limited impact on runoff and erosion compared to the unburned areas, due to the limited changes in soil parameters. In contrast, the wildfire increased many-fold the runoff and erosion rates, but the mulching reduced the hydrological response of the burned soils, particularly for the first two-three rainfalls after the fire. The increase in runoff and erosion after the wildfire was associated to the removal of the vegetation cover, soil water repellency, and ash left by fire; the changes in water infiltration played a minor role on runoff and erosion. The multi-regression models developed for the prescribed fire were accurate to predict the postfire runoff coefficients. However, these models were less reliable for predictions of the mean erosion rates. The predictions of erosion after wildfire and mulching were excellent, while those of runoff were not satisfactory (except for the mean values). These results are useful to better understand the relations among the hydrological effects of fire on one side and the main soil properties and covers on the other side. Moreover, the proposed prediction models are useful to support the planning activities of forest managers and hydrologists towards a more effective conservation of forest soils. (c) 2022 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY
UT WOS:000920308500001
ER

PT J
AU Carstens, J
AF Carstens, Judith
TI Technology in fibre recovery
AB Recycling of various materials has come increasingly under the spotlight as environmental awareness of the general public increases. Recycling is associated. with a clean green image and industries are under pressure more than ever before to perform in this area. Pulp and paper manufacturing is no exception to this recycling trend.
   Manufacturing processes always come with challenges. As fibres are reused repeatedly, their quality decreases providing difficulties for papermakers. This is a challenge for the future, and stock approach systems will have to be upgraded to cope with lower quality waste. Mills that were able to use a high percentage of New Corrugated Cardboard (NCC) or good quality Old Corrugated Cardboard (OCC) must now contend with high percentages of low quality Mixed Office Waste (MOW), Old Newspapers and magazines (ONP). A second area of focus in today's manufacturing plants is on the efficient use of utilities such as water and power.
   There are 239 mills - new mills or mills undergoing a rebuild - in the world today. Of these, 41 use recycled paper as a raw material and therefore produce some kind of recycled product. The number of Greenfield mills or mills adding a new fibreline is 61 worldwide. Seventeen of these contain recycled paper lines as part of their operation and nine of these are in China. From these statistics it is obvious that there is still a great demand for paper throughout the world and the demand for recycled products is going up.
   In order to keep on top of the market, many mills are finding themselves in the position where they have to upgrade their existing stock approach systems to meet both papermaking and customer quality demands. Using equipment that is efficient in both water and energy consumption is an added advantage to mills competing to keep their costs low and gain a larger market share.
   Mills need to continue to constantly develop and expand their processing areas. This means that paper equipment vendors have had to focus on common problem areas and develop equipment that specifically deals with the increased dirt and sticky content of recycled fibres.
   This paper concentrates on recent developments within recycled paper stock approach systems for increased dirt removal and decreased energy consumption. Some of these areas can be modified in existing mills with older technology in order to come closer to best available practise. Use of the best available equipment and new process concepts results in energy, water and equipment savings as well as producing a superior product pulp.
UT WOS:000256262600013
ER

PT J
AU Darwish, MA
   Mohtar, R
AF Darwish, M. A.
   Mohtar, Rabi
TI Qatar water challenges
DE Desalination; Wastewater treatment; Cogeneration power desalting plants;
   Multi-stage flash desalination; Seawater reverse osmosis desalting
   system
AB Qatar has experienced rapid economic growth due to the discovery and production of fuel oil and natural gas (NG). The natural renewable water resources (rainfall and groundwater [GW]) are depleted; and are estimated as 71-m(3)/per year per capita in 2005. This is far below the water poverty line of 1,000-m(3)/yca. The GW withdrawal is excessive (compared to replenishment) and is used mainly for irrigation. A very small amount of GW is treated to become potable water and is distributed to consumers. The municipal potable water mainly contains (99%) desalted seawater (DW) and 1% GW. The consumption of DW and electric power (EP) is continuously rising due to the increase in both population and the standard of living. The population have been more than doubled from 2000 to 2010. The DWis produced in power plants generating both EP and DW, and is called Cogeneration Power Desalting Plants (CPDP). These CPDPs are using either: simple gas turbines (GT) cycle or GT combined with steam turbine (ST) to form a GT combined cycle (GTCC). A thermally driven multi-stage flash (MSF) desalting system is mainly used to desalt seawater. Large MSF units are operated in the CPDP to get their thermal energy (as steam) needs either from: (i) heat recovery steam generators coupled with GT or (ii) steam extracted or discharged from the ST of the GTCC. The CPDPs consume large amounts of fossil fuel (FF), mainly NG. The burning FF pollutes the environment by emitting the carbon dioxide (CO2), carbon monoxides, and nitrogen oxides (NOx). The CO2 and NOx are greenhouse gases causing global warming. Raising the efficiencies of EP and DW production can reduce their negative impact on the environment. The sustainability of water in Qatar is questionable: the extracted GW is several times its replenishment rate. The municipal water supply depends almost on desalting seawater by MSF, which is energy intensive and costly process. Deploying a more energy-efficient desalting system such as Seawater Reverse Osmosis system can save a lot of NG, the nation's main source of income. The use of treated wastewater (TWW) is limited to some agriculture and landscaping. The ratio of TWW to municipal water supply is low, about 25%. It is also essential to promote conservation measures for both water and power. This paper reviews the water profile in Qatar and recommends solutions to solve the growing water scarcity in Qatar.
UT WOS:000313790300010
ER

PT C
AU Hahn, R
   Kamp, A
   Ginolas, A
   Schmidt, M
   Wolf, J
   Glaw, V
   Topper, M
   Ehrmann, O
   Reichl, H
AF Hahn, R
   Kamp, A
   Ginolas, A
   Schmidt, M
   Wolf, J
   Glaw, V
   Topper, M
   Ehrmann, O
   Reichl, H
GP IEEE
TI High power multichip modules employing the planar embedding technique
   and microchannel water heat sinks
AB This paper describes a novel packaging technology for high power multi chip modules (MCMs). The work covers three areas: The fabrication of a multichip module which provides access to the die backside for heat removal, the development of high performance microchannel heat sinks with a CTE matched to the MCM-substrate as well as a low thermal resistivity assembling technology of the two components.
   The MCM is fabricated by means of the planar embedding technology. By planarizing the module backside a low thermal resistance between heat sink and dice can be accomplished simultaneously for all embedded components. While offering the same high interconnection density and the high speed performance benefit of flip chip and providing high reliability and very small size of the overall package, this alternative technology promises to eliminate crucial problems associated with backside cooling of flip chip devices.
   High performance liquid coolers of size 2 '' X2 '' were fabricated by laser cutting of channels in AlN with a pitch down to 200 mu m. The heat transfer coefficients of the heat sinks were in the range of (2-8)X10(4) W/Km(2). The heat sinks were thermally characterized. The thermal resistance, temperature distribution and pressure drop were investigated as function of power, water flux and channel geometry.
   A thermotest module of size 2 '' X2 '', capable of a power dissipation of several hundred W was fabricated using 6 thermal test chips of size 6X6 and 12X12 mm(2). Thermal simulation was used to demonstrate the advantages of the planar embedding technology and to study the influence of various design parameters.
   At high values of heat transfer coefficients obtainable with liquid cooling systems, a crucial improvement of the thermal performance can be achieved with the planar embedding technology. Two methods have been tested for the module attachment on the heat sink. A removable connection can be realized by application of thermal grease and mechanical clamping. Junction to ambient thermal resistance's normalized to the heat dissipating die area (R(th)) of 1.5 Kcm(2)/W were reproducibly achieved at a pressure of 5 psi. As an alternate method adhesives were used for the module attachment. Several types of adhesives which offer high thermal conductivity, high flexibility and reworkability were tested. A material was selected which offered R(th) values below 0.5 Kcm(2)/W at 50 W/cm(2) chip flux.
UT WOS:A1997BH25E00006
ER

PT J
AU Palacios, A
   Bradley, D
AF Palacios, Adriana
   Bradley, Derek
TI Hydrogen and wood-burning stoves
DE hydrogen; wood stoves; decarbonization; CO; particulates; blow off
ID BLOW-OFF; METHANE
AB Wood-burning stoves, in Kenya and Mexico, are reviewed. With a Kenyan stove, burning charcoal, only 24% of the energy released reached the cooking pot. Initially, the proportion of CO in the leaving gases was 3%. Indoor concentrations of particulate matter (less than 2.5 mu m diameter) can be abnormally high near a stove. Decarbonization, by using H-2, is facilitated by a distribution system. Replacement by H-2 would ultimately rest upon wind or water power, or it being a by-product in the production of heavier hydrocarbons from CH4. The averaged burning rate in the Kenyan stove was 10 kW, over 20 min, with an initial peak value of about 30 kW. A possible replacement is a hob, composed of an array of small diameter H-2 jet flames. As an example, combustion of a 2 mm internal diameter H-2 jet flame, with a H-2 exit velocity of 27.2 m s(-1), would release 0.84 kW. Bearing in mind its improved efficiency, a single compact hob with an array of about 10 jets would suffice. A difficulty is the low mass-specific energy of H-2. H-2 has a high acoustic velocity, and both high velocity subsonic combustion and blending with natural gas are briefly discussed. This article is part of the theme issue 'Developing resilient energy systems'.
UT WOS:000761598700007
ER

PT J
AU Mohammadian, M
   Heravi, G
   Seresht, NG
AF Mohammadian, Meghdad
   Heravi, Gholamreza
   Seresht, Nima Gerami
TI Evaluating the Resilience of Interdependent Infrastructure Systems with
   a Focus on Community Livability
DE Resilience; Interdependent infrastructure systems; Community livability;
   Interdependency
ID SEISMIC RESILIENCE
AB Infrastructure systems play a critical role in creating a livable environment for human societies. Hence, enhancing the resilience of infrastructure systems against the adverse impacts of disasters has become a prominent research area in different engineering disciplines. A pivotal step toward this goal is to address the amplifying impact of infrastructure interdependencies in evaluating the performance of the infrastructure systems. However, evaluating the performance of interdependent infrastructure systems (IIS) is associated with several technical challenges, including heterogeneity of the assets involved and incorporating their end-user perspective. This paper aims to determine the severity of the errors that could be made by ignoring the interdependency between different infrastructure systems. The paper also aims to introduce community livability as an inclusive and universal measure of resilience for interdependent infrastructure, which (1) covers all different types of infrastructure (heterogeneity); and (2) is based on the end-user experience. The applicability of the proposed measure (community livability) is tested using two case studies by measuring the earthquake resilience of healthcare-transportation IIS and power-water IIS. The results confirm the importance of incorporating interdependencies between their different elements and end-user experience while measuring the resilience of IISs is illustrated. The results also confirm the proposed methodology's applicability for assessing different infrastructure systems with different characteristics.
UT WOS:001480530700007
ER

PT J
AU Kassem, Y
   Gökçekus, H
   Kiraz, A
   Abdelnaby, AHA
AF Kassem, Youssef
   Gokcekus, Huseyin
   Kiraz, Askin
   Abdelnaby, Abdalla Hamada Abdelnaby
TI Integrating Rainwater Harvesting and Solar Energy Systems for
   Sustainable Water and Energy Management in Low Rainfall Agricultural
   Region: A Case Study from Gönyeli, Northern Cyprus
DE hybrid system; solar energy; rainwater collecting system; Lefko &
   scedil;a; Northern Cyprus; global reanalysis and analysis datasets
ID FIT PROBABILITY-DISTRIBUTION; FREQUENCY-ANALYSIS; ERA5 REANALYSIS;
   CLIMATE-CHANGE; PERFORMANCE; FEASIBILITY; SELECTION; IMPACTS; CONTEXT;
   MODELS
AB The primary objective of this study is to assess the techno-economic feasibility of an innovative solar energy generation system with a rainwater collection feature to generate electrical energy and meet irrigation needs in agriculture. The proposed system is designed for an agricultural area (Gonyeli, North Cyprus) with high solar potential and limited rainfall. In the present study, global rainfall datasets are utilized to assess the potential of rainwater harvesting at the selected site. Due to the lack of the measured rainfall data at the selected site, the accuracy of rainfall of nine global reanalysis and analysis datasets (CHIRPS, CFSR, ERA5-LAND, ERA5, ERA5-AG, MERRA2, NOAA CPC CMORPH, NOAA CPC DAILY GLOBAL, and TerraClimate) are evaluated by using data from ground-based observations collected from the Meteorological Department located in Lefko & scedil;a, Northern Cyprus from 1981 to 2023. The results demonstrate that ERA5 outperformed the other datasets, yielding a high R-squared value along with a low mean absolute error (MAE) and root mean square error (RMSE). Based on the best dataset, the potential of the rainwater harvesting system is estimated by analyzing the monthly and seasonal rainfall patterns utilizing 65 different probability distribution functions for the first time. Three goodness-of-fit tests are utilized to identify the best-fit probability distribution. The results show that the Johnson and Wakeby SB distributions outperform the other models in terms of fitting accuracy. Additionally, the results indicate that the rainwater harvesting system could supply between 31% and 38% of the building's annual irrigation water demand (204 m3/year) based on average daily rainfall and between 285% and 346% based on maximum daily rainfall. Accordingly, the system might be able to collect a lot more water than is needed for irrigation, possibly producing an excess that could be stored for non-potable uses during periods of heavy rainfall. Furthermore, the techno-economic feasibility of the proposed system is evaluated using RETScreen software (version 9.1, 2023). The results show that household energy needs can be met by the proposed photovoltaic system, and the excess energy is transferred to the grid. Furthermore, the cash flow indicates that the investor can expect a return on investment from the proposed PV system within 2.4 years. Consequently, the findings demonstrate the significance of this system for promoting resource sustainability and climate change adaptation. Besides, the developed system can also help reduce environmental impact and enhance resilience in areas that rely on water and electricity.
UT WOS:001581138100001
ER

PT J
AU Ning, ZH
   Zhou, YL
   He, JT
   Tang, C
   Xu, CY
   Chang, FJ
AF Ning, Zhihao
   Zhou, Yanlai
   He, Juntao
   Tang, Chun
   Xu, Chong-Yu
   Chang, Fi-John
TI Balancing water, power, and carbon: A synergistic optimization framework
   for mega cascade reservoir operations
DE Cascade reservoirs; Hydropower optimization; Carbon emission reduction;
   Multi-objective operation; Non-dominated sorting genetic algorithm II
   (NSGA-II); Sustainable water management
ID GREENHOUSE GASES; HYDROPOWER; EMISSIONS; INNOVATION; ALGORITHM; SURFACES
AB This study addresses the critical intersection of renewable energy production and carbon emission reduction in the context of intensified human activities and global climate change by proposing an innovative optimization framework for mega cascade reservoirs. Unlike traditional approaches that often prioritize hydropower output or carbon emissions, our framework uniquely integrates a multi-objective optimization model that simultaneously minimizes carbon emissions, mitigates flood risk, and maximizes hydropower output within the physical constraints of cascade reservoir operations. To assess the performance of various impoundment schemes, we apply the Technique for Order Preference by Similarity to Ideal Solution, demonstrating the model's versatility across different inflow scenarios using seven cascade reservoirs in the Yangtze River as case studies. Our findings reveal that, compared to practical operation scheme, the optimal scheme enhances hydropower output by 5.82 billion kW & sdot;h/a (5.32 %), increases water supply by 2.68 billion m3 (8.00 %), reduces carbon emissions by 17.31 GgC/a (14.66 %), and lowers carbon intensity by 0.63 kgCO2e/MW & sdot;h (15.22 %). This research advances theoretical frameworks for reservoir operations and offers practical implications for policymakers, enabling more informed decision-making to achieve sustainable development goals. The novel integration of water-carbon synergies within reservoir management contributes significantly to the discourse on sustainable energy systems and climate resilience.
UT WOS:001425644600001
ER

PT J
AU Mesa, MVC
   Broggi, M
   Di Maio, F
   Zio, E
AF Mesa, Maria Valentina Clavijo
   Broggi, Matteo
   Di Maio, Francesco
   Zio, Enrico
TI Inoperability assessment of interdependent critical infrastructures
   exposed to natural hazards considering climate change
DE Critical infrastructures; Interdependency; Cascading effects;
   Inoperability assessment; Natural hazard; Climate change; Stochastic
   field; Dynamic inoperability input-output model
ID EXTREME PRECIPITATION; INPUT-OUTPUT; EURO-CORDEX; IMPACT; MODEL;
   RESILIENCE; FREQUENCY; RISK
AB Critical Infrastructures (CIs) are interdependent and, thus, vulnerable to scenarios of cascading effects, e.g., initiated by natural hazardous events like flooding, windstorms, heat waves, etc, which can lead to partial or complete inoperability. Traditional approaches for CI inoperability assessment are based on historical data of natural event occurrence and deterministic climate projections, which often neglect spatial correlations, thus limiting the analysis to the footprint of the direct failures on the CI in the location of occurrence of the hazardous event. Additionally, for long-term CI projections lifespans, it is necessary to consider the changes in natural hazards frequency and intensity due to climate change. In this work, we use climate projections to generate spatially coherent natural hazard scenarios through Stochastic Fields (SFs) via Karhunen-Loe`ve Expansion (KLE), so that spatial dependencies and correlations across the CIs are preserved also accounting for climate change on the long-term. The generated hazard scenarios are integrated within the Dynamic Inoperability Input-output Model (DIIM) framework to evaluate the cascading effects on multi-state interdependent CIs. The overall modeling methodology and simulation framework is applied to multi-state interdependent power and water networks positioned in the climate conditions of North of Italy, considering to climate change projections based on Representative Concentration Pathways (RCPs), specifically RCP 4.5 and RCP 8.5. The analysis performed allows considering how climate change alters inoperability patterns and how systemic risks propagate across CIs. This provides insights for the design of mitigation and prevention strategies.
UT WOS:001767482600001
ER

PT J
AU Trueheart, ME
   Dewoolkar, MM
   Rizzo, DM
   Huston, D
   Bomblies, A
AF Trueheart, Matthew E.
   Dewoolkar, Mandar M.
   Rizzo, Donna M.
   Huston, Dryver
   Bomblies, Arne
TI Simulating hydraulic interdependence between bridges along a river
   corridor under transient flood conditions
DE 2D hydraulic modeling; Transient analysis; Extreme flood events;
   Bridge-river interactions; Bridge resiliency; Flood mitigation
AB Structural alterations to bridges may result in unintended consequences up- or downstream, such as changes in discharge, velocity, stream power, and water levels. This work presents a framework and methodology to analyze interconnected bridge-stream interactions under flood conditions. Such analysis may help prioritize limited resources available for bridge and river rehabilitations, facilitate holistic design of bridges and better-informed cost/benefit analyses, and address stakeholder concerns raised in response to planned bridge and infrastructure alterations. A two-dimensional unsteady HEC-RAS hydraulic model of the Otter Creek between Rutland and Middlebury, VT is used to simulate the impact of individual structures on the bridge-stream network, as well as potential sensitivity to those impacts, during extreme flood events. The presence of a bridge and approach roadway may induce measurable changes in peak discharge throughout the entire 46 miles of modeled river. These may be by as much as 10% at adjacent structures, down to 1% at structures as far as six miles upstream and nine miles downstream. Depending on their characteristics, bridges and roadways may either attenuate or amplify peak flood flows up- and downstream, or have little to no effect at all, suggesting that there is no easily predictable impact, and that hydraulic modeling is necessary for such analysis on rivers. Alterations to structures that develop substantial backwaters may result in the most dramatic impacts to the network, which can be both positive and negative. Affected bridges may or may not be sensitive to these changes in discharge; structures that do not experience relief (e.g., roadway overtopping) may be most sensitive to any distant perturbations. (C) 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000500583400006
ER

PT J
AU Khalid, HM
   Muyeen, SM
   Peng, JCH
AF Khalid, Haris M.
   Muyeen, S. M.
   Peng, Jimmy C. -H.
TI Cyber-Attacks in a Looped Energy-Water Nexus: An Inoculated
   Sub-Observer-Based Approach
DE Sensors; Computer crime; Cooling; Desalination; Pollution measurement;
   Delay effects; Power generation; Closed-loop systems; cool water basin;
   cooling towers; cyberattacks; cyber-physical systems; data fusion;
   energy-water nexus; intrusion detection; liquid-level control; power and
   water desalination plant; quadruple tank system; security; subobserver;
   time delay; water utility
ID SYSTEM; IDENTIFICATION; NETWORKS
AB The deployment of advanced sensors has strengthened the monitoring capability of power plants. In the context of the cogeneration process, the plant cooling is performed by the cooling towers using the condensation process on exhaust steam. However, the computer networks and industrial control systems built on this sensor-based digital layer may become vulnerable to cyberattacks. This may eventually raise a concern on the performance and security of these energy utilities. To resolve this issue, an inoculated subobserver-based fusion filter is proposed. It improves the resilience against malicious attacks in combined cycle power plants with desalination units, which are usually functioning in a closed-loop environment and infected with injected attacks. A time-delay-based state representation is considered for the system. To access latency in a closed-loop environment, a subsystem-based set of subobservers are introduced. Information from each sensor is then gathered using the interacting-multiple-model-based fusion process. The stability of the system has been proved and kept in-check at two different implementation levels of the procedure using functional equivalence and Lyapunov stability criteria, respectively. Performance evaluation is then conducted on a water-level system. Results show that the proposed scheme accurately extracted the system parameters from the contaminated measurements in the presence of multiple system disturbances and cyber intervention.
UT WOS:000543049900049
ER

PT C
AU York, WD
   Romig, BW
   Hughes, MJ
   Simons, DW
   Citeno, JV
AF York, William D.
   Romig, Bryan W.
   Hughes, Michael J.
   Simons, Derrick W.
   Citeno, Joseph V.
GP ASME
TI PREMIXED PILOT FLAMES FOR IMPROVED EMISSIONS AND FLEXIBILITY IN A HEAVY
   DUTY GAS TURBINE COMBUSTION SYSTEM
AB Operators of heavy duty gas turbines desire more flexibility of operation in compliance with increasingly stringent emissions regulations. Delivering low NOx at base load operation, while at the same time meeting aggressive startup, shutdown, and part load requirements for NOx, CO, and unburned hydrocarbons is a challenge that requires novel solutions in the framework of lean premixed combustion systems. The DLN2.6+ combustion system, first offered by the General Electric Company (GE) in 2005 on the 9F series gas turbines for the 50 Hz market, has a proven track record of low emissions, flexibility, and reliability. In 2010, GE launched a program to incorporate the DLN2.6+ into the 7F gas turbine model. The primary driver for the introduction of this combustion system into the 60 Hz market was to enable customers to capitalize on opportunities to use shale gas, which may have a greater Wobbe range and higher reactivity than traditional natural gas.
   The 7F version of the DLN2.6+ features premixed pilot flames on the five outer swirl-stabilized premixing fuel nozzles ("swozzles"). The premixed pilots have their roots in the multi tube mixer technology developed by GE in the US Department of Energy Hydrogen Gas Turbine Program. A fraction of air is extracted prior to entering the combustor and sent to small tubes around the tip of the fuel nozzle centerbody. A dedicated pilot fuel circuit delivers the gas fuel to the pilot tubes, where it is injected into the air stream and given sufficient length to mix. Since the pilot flames are premixed, they contribute lower NOx emissions than a diffusion pilot, but can still provide enhanced main circuit flame stability at low-load conditions. The pilot equivalence ratio can be optimized for the specific operating conditions of the gas turbine.
   This paper presents the development and validation testing of the premixed pilots, which were tested on E-class and F-class gas turbine combustion system rigs at GE Power & Water's Gas Turbine Technology Lab. A 25% reduction in NOx emissions at nominal firing temperature was demonstrated over a diffusion flame pilot, translating into more than 80% reduction in CO emissions if increased flame temperature is employed to hold constant NOx. On the new 7F DLN2.6+, the premixed pilots have enabled modifications to the system to reduce base load NOx emissions while maintaining similar gas turbine low-load performance and bringing a significant reduction in the combustor exit temperature at which LBO occurs, highlighting the stability the pilot system brings to the combustor without the NOx penalty of a diffusion pilot. The new combustion system is scheduled to enter commercial operation on GE 7F series gas turbines in 2015.
UT WOS:000380176400067
ER

PT J
AU Aslam, MM
   Tufail, A
   Apong, RAAHM
   De Silva, LC
   Raza, MT
AF Aslam, Muhammad Muzamil
   Tufail, Ali
   Apong, Rosyzie Anna Awg Haji Mohd
   De Silva, Liyanage Chandratilak
   Raza, Muhammad Taqi
TI Scrutinizing Security in Industrial Control Systems: An Architectural
   Vulnerabilities and Communication Network Perspective
DE Industrial control system; ICS security; IoT; IIoT; cyber security; ICS
   architecture; vulnerabilities; real cases
ID FALSE DATA INJECTION; CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURES; INTRUSION DETECTION;
   STATE ESTIMATION; CYBER-SECURITY; SCADA SYSTEM; INTERNET; ATTACKS;
   THREATS; THINGS
AB Technological advancement plays a crucial role in our daily lives and constantly transforms the industrial sector. However, these technologies also introduce new security vulnerabilities to Industrial Control Systems (ICS). Attackers take advantage of these weaknesses to infiltrate the ICS environment. The size of the targeted industry and the attacker's knowledge of the internal ICS environment are crucial factors in determining the degree of impact. Researchers and industry professionals have taken several initiatives to identify and address security problems in the ICS environment; however, to our knowledge, a comprehensive survey of this landscape has yet to be conducted. Existing surveys have limitations since they mainly focus on specific aspects of ICS security rather than covering the security aspects holistically. This paper aims to cover all aspects of security in ICS by classifying the ICS environment into its components, such as SCADA, PLC, DCS, RTU, HMI, MTU, etc. The paper then discusses the vulnerabilities in the modern ICS environment, including those of the specific components. The article also presents a classification of ICS-specific attack types. Furthermore, the study examines real-world attack scenarios in the industrial critical infrastructure sectors, including energy, power, water, and wastewater. This study provides an in-depth analysis of ICS security that empowers researchers and industry practitioners to comprehend the complexities of ICS security and to strengthen the ICS environment's resilience proactively.
UT WOS:001227379300001
ER

PT J
AU Emenike, SN
   Falcone, G
AF Emenike, Scholastica N.
   Falcone, Gioia
TI A review on energy supply chain resilience through optimization
DE Resilience; Supply chain; Optimization; Energy; Natural gas;
   Uncertainty; Disruption; COVID-19
ID LINEAR-PROGRAMMING MODEL; NATURAL-GAS PIPELINE; MULTIOBJECTIVE
   OPTIMIZATION; RENEWABLE ENERGY; LOGISTICS ISSUES; SYSTEMS;
   TRANSPORTATION; NETWORKS; BIOMASS; MULTIPRODUCT
AB The concept of supply chain resilience continues to attract both industry and research experts in the field of energy. These stakeholders continue to tackle disruptions to supply chain systems through the introduction of strategy options for resilience. A better understanding of broader dimensions of potential disruptions to supply chains caused by uncertainties has become eminent, especially as currently experienced during the global COVID-19 pandemic. The effects of the outbreak in disrupting supply chains in the energy sector will, in the next decade, continue to be a likely concern for industry and research stakeholders. Balancing the increasing need for energy security to meet the continuous growth in energy demand through shortage reduction and increased uptime using optimization is the core of this research. This review paper provides an insight into recent studies in the field of natural gas supply chain resilience as a major player in the energy mix, and the continued disruption and subsequent shutdowns of plant nodes, which results in emission loss to the environment. This paper is motivated by the disparity between demand and supply triggered by the disruption of supply chain networks. Referenced in this paper are scientific work on supply chain resilience of biomass, water, power systems, and natural gas. Findings show that existing studies favor fewer system-based strategies in optimizing for resilience. This review concludes that an optimization is a useful tool to continuously achieve resilience in supply chain production, storage, and transportation activities.
UT WOS:000582927200006
ER

PT J
AU Nunes-Vaz, R
   Arbon, P
   Steenkamp, M
AF Nunes-Vaz, Rick
   Arbon, Paul
   Steenkamp, Malinda
TI Imperatives for health sector decision-support modelling
DE Health care systems; Emergency management; Disaster management; Decision
   support modelling; Resilience; Modelling and simulation
ID PUBLIC-HEALTH; SURGE-CAPACITY; CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE; EMERGENCY
   PREPAREDNESS; CASUALTY INCIDENTS; CASCADING FAILURE; HOSPITAL SURGE;
   CARE; SIMULATION; TRIAGE
AB Like many other critical infrastructures, the public health systems of most countries have grown to high complexity and broad interdependence. Complex adaptive systems of this kind have been shown to evolve into a precarious state between order and disorder in which remote triggers can lead to cascading failure. The healthcare stresses of ageing populations, emerging infectious diseases and treatment-resistant pathogens continue to grow. However, the economic drive for leaner systems and supply chains, and their increasing interdependencies (power, water, food, fuel etc.), all contribute to the growing fragility of public health. When systems are stressed (during emergencies or disasters), accountability for effective resource use requires that health decision making switch from optimal care of individuals to a resource-conserving mode designed to maximise outcomes for the population. Understanding when and how to operate under such conditions, demands that decision makers have a strong grasp of system capacities, limitations and the beneficial or deleterious effects of parameters they are able to manipulate. These difficulties lie behind a growing effort to model health systems to inform planning and (more aspirationally) support real-time decision making. However, modelling efforts to date have been less than optimally founded and structured. Our purpose in this paper is to reframe conceptual approaches to the strategic modelling of health systems and their dependencies in order to point the way to a more productive path for health sector decision-support modelling.
UT WOS:000477698300035
ER

PT J
AU Zoghlami, RI
   Hamdi, H
   Mokni-Tlili, S
   Hechmi, S
   Khelil, MN
   Ben Aissa, N
   Moussa, M
   Bousnina, H
   Benzarti, S
   Jedidi, N
AF Zoghlami, Rahma Ines
   Hamdi, Helmi
   Mokni-Tlili, Sonia
   Hechmi, Sarra
   Khelil, Mohamed Naceur
   Ben Aissa, Nadhira
   Moussa, Mohamed
   Bousnina, Habib
   Benzarti, Saoussen
   Jedidi, Naceur
TI Monitoring the variation of soil quality with sewage sludge application
   rates in absence of rhizosphere effect
DE Sandy loam soil; Urban sewage sludge; Structural stability; Soil
   degradation; Aggregation; Magnetic susceptibility
ID MICROBIAL BIOMASS; ORGANIC-MATTER; AGGREGATE STABILITY; HUMIC
   SUBSTANCES; METABOLIC QUOTIENT; CARBON; NITROGEN; PLANT; BIOREMEDIATION;
   RESPIRATION
AB Agricultural soils in semi-arid regions have frequently been degraded due to adverse climatic conditions, organic matter depletion, and poor farming practices. To enhance soil quality, this study examines the reuse of sewage sludge (SS) as an available source of organic matter in a typical Mediterranean sandyloam soil. Accordingly, we studied the cumulative effect of two annual applications of 40, 80 and 120 tons of sludge per ha on soil quality in absence of vegetation. The dose-dependent improvement of organic matter content was the most significant event that reflected sludge application rates, and consequently influenced other soil properties. Accordingly, soil structural stability increased by 13.3%, 28.8% and 59.4% for treatments SS-40, SS-80 and SS-120 respectively as compared to unamended control. Structural stability improvement was also confirmed by the dose-dependent variation of other edaphic factors including calcium content, the microbial quotient as well as Welt and C:N ratios. These parameters are involved in cementing soil aggregates by cation bridging, the formation of microbial mucilage, and clay-humic complexes. Soil magnetic susceptibility (SMS) was measured in situ as a possible rapid tool to evaluate soil condition. SMS showed significant correlation with sludge dose and stability amelioration testifying to the aggregation role that can play Al2O3 and particularly Fe2O3 minerals added by the hematite-rich sludge. Besides, analytical results and field observations revealed no trends of soil salinization or acidification by excessive sludge amounts. By avoiding the rhizosphere effect, outcomes could reflect the resilience and intrinsic capacity of the soil to cope with excessive sludge loads. (C) 2020 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation and China Water and Power Press. Production and Hosting by Elsevier B.V.
UT WOS:000564216100004
ER

PT J
AU Guzman, A
   Banuelos, M
   Calo, A
   Benitez, FJ
   Wagner, E
   Yang, P
   Dahlquist-Willard, R
AF Guzman, Aidee
   Banuelos, Martin
   Calo, Adam
   Benitez, Francisco J.
   Wagner, Emily
   Yang, Paula
   Dahlquist-Willard, Ruth
TI Constraints on crop diversification under drought: Multi-scale evidence
   from California's San Joaquin Valley
DE Crop diversity; Drought; Land-use change; Polyculture; California
   agriculture
ID SUSTAINABLE GROUNDWATER-MANAGEMENT; CLIMATE-CHANGE; LAND-USE;
   RESILIENCE; DIVERSITY; IMPACTS; ROTATION
AB Extreme droughts are expected to test the resilience of agricultural systems, and agricultural diversification is often proposed as a strategy to buffer farms against climatic stress. However, there is limited empirical evidence on how crop diversification patterns change across agricultural landscapes during prolonged drought. California's 2012-2016 drought provides an opportunity to examine how diversification patterns shift alongside broader land-use dynamics in a water-limited agricultural region. We analyzed agricultural land-use transitions across California's San Joaquin Valley from 2009 to 2022, with a detailed field-scale focus on Fresno County. Using a multi-scale approach that integrates county-level cropland data with high-resolution aerial imagery, we quantified changes in crop diversity and distinguished monoculture and polyculture systems. We also described concurrent trends in farm size and land tenure using agricultural census data. At the regional scale, crop diversity responses varied across counties, but Fresno County showed a significant long-term decline. At the field scale in Fresno County, polyculture systems decreased substantially in area and were frequently replaced by perennial monocultures, including nut trees. These changes occurred alongside declines in small-scale and tenant-operated farms and relative increases in large, owner-operated operations. While ecological research suggests that diversification can enhance resilience under stress, our results show that diversified systems did not expand during this period of drought and groundwater scarcity. Instead, observed land-use patterns are consistent with the influence of broader structural factors, including land tenure, farm consolidation, and access to groundwater, although these relationships are not directly tested here. Together, these findings suggest that agricultural diversification under climate extremes is shaped not only by ecological performance but also by the structural conditions that determine which farming systems can persist. Sustaining diversified agriculture as a climate adaptation strategy will therefore require attention to land, water, and power alongside ecological design.
UT WOS:001864662400001
ER

PT J
AU Grineski, SE
   Collins, TW
   Chakraborty, J
AF Grineski, Sara E.
   Collins, Timothy W.
   Chakraborty, Jayajit
TI Cascading disasters and mental health inequities: Winter Storm Uri,
   COVID-19 and post-traumatic stress in Texas
DE Cascading disasters; Post-traumatic stress; Health inequities; Extreme
   weather events
ID LONGITUDINAL DATA-ANALYSIS; PTSD CHECKLIST PCL; CLIMATE-CHANGE;
   GASTROINTESTINAL ILLNESS; RELATIVE RISKS; RESILIENCE; SURVIVORS;
   SEVERITY; DISORDER; EVENTS
AB Previous research on health effects of extreme weather has emphasized heat events even though cold-attributable mortality exceeds heat-attributable mortality worldwide. Little is known about the mental health effects of cold weather events, which often cascade to produce secondary impacts like power outages, leaving a knowledge gap in context of a changing climate. We address that gap by taking a novel "cascading disaster health inequities" approach to examine winter storm-associated post-traumatic stress (PTS) using survey data (n = 790) collected in eight Texas metro areas following Winter Storm Uri in 2021, which occurred against the backdrop of COVID-19. The incidence of storm-related PTS was 18%. Being Black (odds ratio [OR]: 6.6), Hispanic (OR: 3.5), or of another non-White race (OR: 4.2) was associated with greater odds of PTS compared to being White, which indicates substantial racial/ethnic inequities in mental health impacts (all p < 0.05). Having a disability also increased odds of PTS (OR: 4.4) (p < 0.05). Having piped water outages (OR: 1.9) and being highly impacted by COVID-19 (OR: 3.3) increased odds of PTS (both p < 0.05). When modelling how COVID-19 and outages cascaded, we compared householders to those with no outages and low COVID-19 impacts. PTS was more likely (p < 0.05) if householders had a water or power outage and high COVID-19 impacts (OR: 4.4) and if they had water and power outages and high COVID-19 impacts (OR: 7.7). Findings provide novel evidence of racial/ethnic inequities and cascading effects with regard to extreme cold events amid the COVID-19 pandemic.
UT WOS:001041524900016
ER

PT J
AU Hassan, W
   Li, YE
   Saba, T
   Jabbi, F
   Wang, B
   Cai, AD
   Wu, JS
AF Hassan, Waseem
   Li, Yu'e
   Saba, Tahseen
   Jabbi, Fanta
   Wang, Bin
   Cai, Andong
   Wu, Jianshuang
TI Improved and sustainable agroecosystem, food security and environmental
   resilience through zero tillage with emphasis on soils of temperate and
   subtropical climate regions: A review
ID GREENHOUSE-GAS EMISSIONS; NITROUS-OXIDE EMISSIONS; LONG-TERM TILLAGE;
   CARBON-DIOXIDE; NO-TILLAGE; ORGANIC-CARBON; CROPPING SYSTEM; RESIDUE
   MANAGEMENT; CONVENTIONAL TILLAGE; MICROBIAL BIOMASS
AB Tillage is one of the agricultural management practices that significantly impacts agroecosystems, crop production, and the environment. Conventional tillage (CT) practices alter the soil environment and induce organic constituents' decomposition and the emission of greenhouse gases (GHGs), which contribute to the greenhouse effect and global warming. Low organic matter, biological diversity, aggregate stability, high erosion and degradation of the soil environment, and sequestration strength are additional factors associated with CT, which negatively affect food security and environmental sustainability. As a result, CT is no more beneficial in the long run; consequently, zero tillage (ZT) could be a viable candidate for sustainable agriculture. The review to establish this systematically compared and summarized the effect of tillage systems (i.e. CT and ZT) by synthesizing and interpreting published data (>150 peer-reviewed articles) with >200 observations on soil ecosystem services and properties/agroecosystem, crop yield/food security, GHG emission, and carbon sequestration/environmental resilience. The review established that ZT improves soil structure, aggregate stability, biological diversity, organic matter and nutrients, water and water use efficiency, and reduces soil degradation, erosion, tillage machinery impacts, and GHG emissions. It allows timely seeding and better crop growth, increases yield and food security, improves carbon sequestration, strengthens soil storage potential, and helps to mitigate the adverse effects of climate change on environmental resilience. Based on various latent direct and indirect benefits, resource-saving ability, and broad adoption scope of ZT, it is corroborated that ZT is a practical and potential approach for improved and sustainable agroecosystem, food security, and environmental resilience. (C) 2022 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd.
UT WOS:000856028300001
ER

PT J
AU Abbou, A
   Davidson, RA
   Kendra, J
   Martins, VN
   Ewing, B
   Nozick, LK
   Cox, Z
   Leon-Corwin, M
AF Abbou, Abderrahmane
   Davidson, Rachel A.
   Kendra, James
   Martins, V. Nuno
   Ewing, Bradley
   Nozick, Linda K.
   Cox, Zachary
   Leon-Corwin, Maggie
TI Household Adaptations to Infrastructure System Service Interruptions
ID RISK; PREPAREDNESS; STRATEGIES; RESILIENCE; DISASTER
AB When critical infrastructure system services are disrupted, households typically respond by reducing, delaying, or relocating their demand (e.g., delaying laundry), or augmenting supply (e.g., using a generator). While this phenomenon is well known, there has been little systematic empirical investigation of it. Focusing on electric power and water service interruptions and using revealed and stated preference survey data from Los Angeles County, California, we develop 24 mixed logit models, one each to predict the probability an individual undertakes a specified adaptation as a function of outage duration and characteristics of the individual. The analysis aims to determine: (1) how common different household adaptations are; (2) how adaptation implementation varies with infrastructure type, outage duration, and uses of the service; (3) what household characteristics are associated with implementation of different adaptations; and (4) how adaptations tend to occur together. The percentage of individuals who report doing an adaptation varies greatly across adaptations and outage durations, from 2% to 88%. In general, adaptations that require moving out of the home are the least common of those investigated. For electric power outages, adaptations that could be done at home are less likely as the outage duration increases, while those that require going somewhere are more likely as the duration increases. For water outages, all adaptations (except delaying consumption) are more likely as an outage lasts longer. Using electric power or water for medical devices and/or work and business has a large effect on the likelihood of implementing many adaptations. Preevent conservation habits are also associated with an increased likelihood of implementing adaptations. The influence of household characteristics varies greatly across adaptations. There is evidence that some adaptations tend to occur together (e.g., using water from lakes and the government) and others tend not to (e.g., delaying electricity use and going to a hotel). (C) 2022 American Society of Civil Engineers.
UT WOS:000867888700008
ER

PT J
AU Luquin, E
   Herzmann, D
   Gelder, B
   Cruse, R
AF Luquin, Eduardo
   Herzmann, Daryl
   Gelder, Brian
   Cruse, Richard
TI Assessing the impact of residue cover on hillslope soil loss in the
   Midwest US: insights from the daily erosion project modeling framework
DE Tillage intensity; Residue cover; Erosion; DEP framework; Conservation
   tillage; Scenario analysis; Regional
ID WATER EROSION; NO-TILL; RUNOFF
AB Designing regionally resilient cropping systems requires understanding the interactions of multiple factors important to crop production and soil erosion-susceptibility both spatially and temporally. The objectives of this study were to elucidate the relationships between regional hillslope soil loss and Daily Erosion Project (DEP) tillage management scenarios and assess the sensitivity of hillslope soil loss to different field residue covers associated with these tillage scenarios. DEP simulations used the same tillage management scenario for the entire domain. Scenarios consisted of the six tillage categories within DEP (T1 to T6), with increasing values implying more intense tillage (less residue). Results indicated a direct relationship between tillage intensity (less residue cover) and higher erosion rates at different spatial scales (statewide, major land resource areas [MLRA], and DEP watersheds). The study also revealed a significant spatial variability across the DEP domain, identifying erosion-prone regions along the Missouri River and eastern Iowa and Minnesota, surpassing in many scenarios 17.9 Mg/ha/yr. Other areas showed no response associated with increasing tillage intensity, demonstrating how local factors such as topography, soil, land use, and climate and their interaction could also affect erosion. The sensitivity analysis uncovered a very high erosion sensitivity to small changes in residue cover, especially in hilly watersheds, while transitioning from no-till to tilled systems. Overall, this regional study underscores the importance of residue cover management and minimal soil disturbance in reducing hillslope erosion and illustrates the critical role landscape and management interactions play in spatially variable regional hill slope soil erosion rates. (c) 2025 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation and China Water and Power Press. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
UT WOS:001699733700001
ER

PT J
AU Moser, M
   Trieb, F
   Fichter, T
   Kern, J
AF Moser, Massimo
   Trieb, Franz
   Fichter, Tobias
   Kern, Juergen
TI Renewable desalination: a methodology for cost comparison
DE Renewable energy; Concentrating solar power; MENA; Water supply;
   Sustainable desalination
ID TECHNOLOGIES
AB The increasing water demand and the impacts of climate change call for the construction of a large number of new desalination capacities, causing-besides environmental impacts-a relevant amount of additional power consumption. Consequently, new power plants need to be installed and operated as base load plants in order to supply power continuously to the desalination units. As fossil fuel prices are characterized by high volatility and a clear trend upwards, the use of renewable energies allows for saving fossil fuels and therewith reducing risks related to energy price escalation along the whole desalination life cycle. However, the fluctuant nature of renewable energies conflicts with the-ideally-continuous operation of desalination plants. In contrast to technologies such as photovoltaic (PV) and wind power, which are prone to fluctuating and intermittent power generation, concentrating solar power (CSP) is able to supply firm capacity on demand and can be fully integrated into conventional power utilities. On the other hand, CSP is currently considered to be more expensive than other renewable energy technologies. This work highlights the key importance of comparing technology options with equal quality of supply in order to obtain resilient results. Within this work, a representative site in the Middle East and North Africa Region has been analyzed by two different methodologies in order to demonstrate the potential large difference of results. The first method assumes that any variations of renewable energy supply can be compensated by the electricity grid, while the second method assumes that the addition of load to the electricity grid will require the addition of an equivalent firm power supply capacity. Hourly solar and wind data of a typical meteorological year have been used as inputs for a techno-economic simulation. Different options for CSP solar field layout, thermal energy storage, PV, and wind installed capacity, are analyzed and compared in terms of power and water cost for reverse osmosis and multieffect distillation plants.
UT WOS:000313794400063
ER

PT J
AU Batker, D
   Soares, J
   Sun, YH
   Batker-Pritzker, A
   Guo, RBC
AF Batker, David
   Soares, Jared
   Sun, Yung-Hsin
   Batker-Pritzker, Aaron
   Guo, Rebecca
TI Headwater Valuation as a Tool for Economic Development, Healthy Forest
   Management, and Water Resilience
DE ecosystem goods and services; watershed health; water supply; natural
   capital; valuation; climate change; community resilience;
   rural-agricultural communities
ID SNOWMELT; RAINFALL
AB The upper American River watershed (UARW) provides a myriad of valuable benefits for local communities as well as throughout the state, nation, and even globally. These environmental benefits, often called ecosystem goods and services (EGS), include food, water, power, and recreational opportunities, among many others. Current ecological economics frameworks outline over twenty distinct EGS categories. While this information is becoming more widespread, many of these benefits are still undervalued or are not easily applied to policymaking and project-level investment decisions. Conventional EGS valuation focuses narrowly on a few specific EGS categories, ignoring many to the detriment of those seeking information on the economic value of natural infrastructure. This study provides a novel approach to watershed valuation by assessing eighteen EGS categories in a comprehensive watershed valuation by supplementing locally available data with the benefit transfer method. This approach demonstrates that watershed-scale EGS valuation is possible. The resulting valuation shows the natural capital asset in the UAW has a net present value of $731 billion and $1.6 trillion with 2.5% and 0% discount rates (100 years), respectively, and provides over $14.8 billion in annual value. Valuing natural capital in economic terms provides a common metric for comparison and integration with other types of investments in built and social capitals, informing policy and investment decisions for climate adaptation and water resilience. This EGS valuation provides a case study into how benefit transfer can be used to supplement locally available information to provide watershed-scale EGS valuations. The outcome serves as a tool to promote innovation and equity in the design of funding mechanisms and resulting allocation for improving watershed health, the associated EGS productivity, and rural-agricultural community resilience.
UT WOS:001286911100001
ER

PT J
AU Sofia, G
   Zaccone, C
   Tarolli, P
AF Sofia, Giulia
   Zaccone, Claudio
   Tarolli, Paolo
TI Agricultural drought severity in NE Italy: Variability, bias, and future
   scenarios
DE Climate impacts; Soil organic matter; Water management; Agricultural
   systems; Remote sensing
ID SOIL ORGANIC-MATTER; CLIMATE-CHANGE; CARBON; CHALLENGES; TRENDS;
   MANAGEMENT; EXTREMES; STORAGE; INDEX
AB This study investigated the variability of agricultural drought severity, as depicted by vegetation indices, and the bias in identifying drought events when considering a stationary vs nonstationary climate reference. The work leveraged gridded climate data (NCEP CFSv2, CHIRPS 1981-2022), soil properties (OpenLandMap), satellite imagery (Sentinel2/Landsat, 2000-2022), and future climate projections (NEXGDDP, 2050) together with local knowledge of selected farms, to augment drought monitoring techniques and identify potential issues for agriculture. For the study domain, significant differences were observed when comparing drought characteristics using stationary and nonstationary drought indexes, with biases being not ubiquitous in either space or time of year. When developing sustainable drought mitigation and adaptation strategies, decision-makers should carefully address this uncertainty to avoid a possible underestimation of drought magnitude. Results showed a drought increase (-50%) by the mid and late twenty-first century. Projection of future climate highlighted an even more significant impact (-80%) with a wide variability of risk across the domain. As drought impact was also related to soil organic carbon (SOC), our results suggest that improving SOC content could be a sustainable strategy for enhancing soil drought resilience, especially in areas commonly characterized by low concentrations of organic carbon and nutrients. The analysis highlighted that drought impacts were also modulated by investment in irrigation infrastructure and irrigation efficiency. Researchers and land managers could apply the proposed analysis design to address historical, current and future indicators of vegetation conditions within irrigated regions. By providing spatio-temporal information on the patterns of drought impacts and their bias, this study supports identifying priority regions for targeted drought risk reduction and adaptation options, including water resources and soil management sustainability criteria, to move towards more resilient agricultural systems. (c) 2023 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY
UT WOS:001225665300001
ER

PT J
AU Swain, R
   Mishra, UC
AF Swain, Rajkishore
   Mishra, Umesh Chandra
TI Short-term hydrothermal scheduling using grey wolf optimization
   algorithm
DE Grey wolf optimization algorithm; Encircling prey; Hydrothermal
   scheduling; Cascaded reservoirs; Optimization
ID EVOLUTIONARY PROGRAMMING TECHNIQUES; DIFFERENTIAL EVOLUTION; GENETIC
   ALGORITHM; OPERATION; COORDINATION; HYBRID
AB This paper presents Grey Wolf Optimization algorithm (GWO) for solving economic analysis of hydrothermal systems (HTS). The mathematical configuration of hydrothermal systems is considered a highly non-linear and complex problem. The intention of the HTS is to evaluate the optimal power allocation during a certain interval of time so as to minimize the total generation cost. The various constraints like the cascading nature of hydro plants, water transport delay, degree of power, water dispense limits, tank storage limits, hydraulic durability constraints, and starting and ending reservoir container limits are fully incorporated in the present work. The presented approach is then benchmarked on three well-known hydrothermal systems and the results are verified against different meta-heuristic techniques like Turbulent Water Flow Optimization (TWFO), Crisscross Optimization (CSO), Red Fox Optimizer (RFO), Remora Optimization Algorithm (ROA), Harris Hawks Optimization (HHO) Monarch Butterfly Optimization (MBO), Student Psychology-Based Optimization (SPBO) and improved Gravitational Search Algorithm (IGSA). The generation scheduling and minimum fuel cost of the thermal system are the main characteristics of the suggested approach, which gives competitive results with less computational burden. The fuel cost of a thermal plant with four cascaded hydro plants is 910,961.32 $/h, which is less than the fuel cost as reported by other existing evolutionary techniques compared in the simulation results. Further, the computational time of the purposed approach is found to be substantially less compared to existing algorithms. The statistical comparison between the GWO technique and the modified differential evolution (MDE) approach for four hydro plants and a thermal plant show that the MDE method has a higher mean cost than the GWO method. The standard deviation of the GWO technique is 5.4450 e + 03, whereas the standard deviation of the MDE approach is 9.2980 e + 03. The mean cost for case study four hydro system and three thermal systems in the MDE method is 4.5013e+04; however, it is 3.9397e+04 with the GWO approach. So, the GWO method outperforms MDE in terms of better statistical stability and resiliency.
UT WOS:001086862500001
ER

PT J
AU Heller, AR
   Oberst, A
   Ritter, DM
AF Heller, Axel R.
   Oberst, Amelie
   Ritter, Dennis M.
TI Anesthesiology as an integrative cross-sectional discipline of clinical
   resilience-What hospitals must anticipate now for high-load operations
DE CBRN; Host nation support; Cold start capabilities; Damage control
   surgery; Resource allocation; Resource allocation; Civil-Military
   cooperation; Civil-Military cooperation; Damage control surgery; CBRN;
   Resource allocation; Civil-Military cooperation
ID MANAGEMENT
AB The increasing complexity of modern threats, from pandemics and cyberattacks to hybrid and conventional forms of warfare, requires a paradigm shift in disaster preparedness at medical facilities. Building on experiences from the war in Ukraine, business continuity management and a consistent all-hazards approach, a multilevel, practical resilience model for hospitals is presented. In the context of alliance and national defense, civilian hospitals assume the role of military level 4 facilities. They must be able to cold start and receive and stabilize wounded patients while maintaining regular care and transfer them onward in a scalable manner. To this end, military medical evacuation and distribution systems must be integrated in an interoperable manner. The approach integrates a legally robust procedural framework (disaster declaration, general administrative orders, medical management, hospital coordination) with operational capacity (resource-independent triage at entry, damage control resuscitation/surgery, chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear (CBRN) minimum protection standard) as well as hybrid documentation and communication (paper-based mode, digital coordination instruments, bed occupancy, wave plan/tickets, defined fallbacks). Resources are allocated without discrimination according to urgency and clinical prospects of success, supported by re-evaluation and the multiple assessor principle. In clinical operations, interdisciplinary anesthesiological and intensive care cross-sectional services make an essential contribution to maintaining overall system functionality. This includes, in particular, the management of intensive care capacity. These functions act in a complementary and cooperative manner alongside core surgical services, embedded within a multiprofessional and multidisciplinary framework. A staged resilience roadmap prioritizes upgrades to existing facilities (emergency power/water, protected operating room/ICU cores), network and cooperation structures and staff training; large-scale new construction is a lower priority. In addition, supplementary curricular qualifications (e.g. nursing assistant and emergency medical services modules for students) and binding funding commitments for training, infrastructure, supplies and cyber/IT resilience are required. The resulting synthesis of operational, ethical, legal and infrastructural elements anchors a highly resilient, interoperable care architecture that reliably preserves clinical functionality, decision-making ability and moral integrity even under extremely challenging conditions.
UT WOS:001760595500001
ER

PT C
AU Bunning, JM
AF Bunning, J. M.
BE Chan, F
   Marinova, D
   Anderssen, RS
TI Governance supporting distributed energy systems for low carbon urban
   development
DE Climate change; distributed; energy; governance; infrastructures
ID CLIMATE-CHANGE; RESILIENCE; MODEL
AB Global change is required from a strong dependency on high consumption and carbon intensive economies to reduced consumption and low carbon society construction. Cities can offer an enormous contribution to the reduction of carbon emissions; however this process requires a certain degree of rethinking and redesigning of our cities including, infrastructural restructuring with network patterns and resource flows that foster low carbon urban development.
   Distributed systems that support low carbon urban development including, decentralised power, water, waste and transport are becoming popular as a viable alternative or complimentary addition to centralised city services. However, the emerging decentralised systems pose a unique set of risks and this is generating new modes of governance at national, regional and local.
   The growing interest in distributed energy systems and the parallel transition that is occurring towards multi-level governance, which can support such schemes, will be examined in this paper. A framework will be used to characterise the different governance structures being used to implement decentralised services; and this study will examine how such approaches promise to facilitate delivery, operation and ownership of distributed city services. An assessment will also be made on a series of economic models and business partnerships that are emerging that offer viable structures to manage distributed energy systems in cooperation with local government utilities, investors and corporate entities.
   This research will investigate how certain regulatory barriers to centralised energy systems can be overcome to allow for large-scale implementation of distributed energy options. The possible governance strategies will be demonstrated with reference to some international and national case studies including Woking and London in the UK and Sydney in Australia, which best exemplify the distributed energy systems' model and the success factors and barriers for its implementation.
   Finally, the study will discuss the opportunities, challenges and risks that exist for Australia in adoption of such governance schemes, and it will suggest areas where future governance investigation could enhance sustainable planning and development in Australia.
UT WOS:000314989302142
ER

PT J
AU da Silva, LDM
   Avanzi, JC
   Peixoto, DS
   Merlo, MN
   Borghi, E
   de Resende, AV
   Acuña-Guzman, SF
   Silva, BM
AF Moreira da Silva, Lucas de Castro
   Avanzi, Junior Cesar
   Peixoto, Devison Souza
   Merlo, Marina Neves
   Borghi, Emerson
   de Resende, Alvaro Vilela
   Acuna-Guzman, Salvador Francisco
   Silva, Bruno Montoani
TI Ecological intensification of cropping systems enhances soil functions,
   mitigates soil erosion, and promotes crop resilience to dry spells in
   the Brazilian Cerrado
DE Crop rotation; Grain production; Nutrient losses; Soil physical quality;
   Tropical region
ID LIMITING WATER RANGE; NO-TILL; PHYSICAL QUALITY; LONG-TERM;
   ORGANIC-MATTER; COVER CROPS; SURFACE RUNOFF; USE EFFICIENCY; YIELD;
   LOSSES
AB Water scarcity threatens global food security and agricultural systems are challenged to achieve high yields while optimizing water usage. Water deficit can be accentuated by soil physical degradation, which also triggers water losses through runoff and consequently soil erosion. Although soil health in cropping systems within the Brazilian Cerrado biome have been surveyed throughout the years, information about soil erosion impacts and its mitigation are still not well understood; especially concerning the role of cropping system diversification and its effects on crop yield. Thus, the aim of this study was to assess whether ecological intensification of cropping systems -inclusion of a consorted perennial grass and crop rotation- could promote soil coverage and consequently decrease water erosion and soil, water, and nutrient losses. This work studied the effects of crop rotation and consorted Brachiaria, along with different levels of investment in fertilization on soil physical quality and on soil, water, and nutrient losses, and crop yields. Results proved that soybean monoculture (SS) is a system of low sustainability even under no-till in the Brazilian Cerrado conditions. It exhibited high susceptibility to soil, water, and nutrient losses, causing low crop yields. Our results showed that water losses in SS cropping system were approximately 10% of the total annual rainfall, and total K losses would require an additional 35% of K application. Conversely, ecological intensification of cropping systems resulted in enhanced soil environmental and agronomic functions, increased grain yield, and promoted soil and water conservation: high soil cover rate, and low soil, water and nutrient losses. Ecological intensification proved to be an adequate practice to boost crop resilience to water deficit in the Brazilian Cerrado. (C) 2021 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water & Power Press. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd.
UT WOS:000706193900010
ER

PT J
AU Paye, WS
   Thapa, VR
   Ghimire, R
AF Paye, Wooiklee S.
   Thapa, Vesh R.
   Ghimire, Rajan
TI Limited impacts of occasional tillage on dry aggregate size distribution
   and soil carbon and nitrogen fractions in semi-arid drylands
DE Conventional tillage; Occasional tillage; Aggregate associated carbon;
   Mineral associated organic matter carbon; (MAOM-C); Particulate organic
   matter carbon (POM-C)
ID ORGANIC-MATTER FRACTIONS; NO-TILLAGE; PHYSICAL-PROPERTIES; STRATEGIC
   TILLAGE; CROP-ROTATION; SYSTEMS; RUNOFF; WATER; MECHANISMS; INTENSITY
AB Tillage management that minimizes the frequency , intensity of soil disturbance can increase soil carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) sequestration and improve the resilience of dryland cropping systems, yet the impact of occasional disturbance on soil aggregate formation and the soil organic carbon (SOC) storage within aggregates has not been studied well. We evaluated the effect of four tillage management practices on soil dry aggregate size distribution, aggregate-protected C and N, mineral-associated organic matter carbon (MAOM-C), particulate organic matter carbon (POM-C) , corn (Zea mays L.) and sor-ghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench) yields in a semi-arid dryland cropping system. Treatments included conventional tillage (CT), strip-tillage (ST), no-tillage (NT), and occasional tillage (OT) management in a corn-sorghum rotation. Soil macro-aggregates were 51-54% greater under ST, NT, and OT, while small and micro-aggregates were greater in CT. Conventional tillage reduced soil aggregate-associated C by 28-31% in macro-aggregates and 47-53% in small aggregates at 26 months (M) sampling compared to ST, NT, and OT. In clay thorn silt fraction, CT had 14-16%, 21-26%, and 36-43% less SOC at 7, 14, and 26M samplings, respectively, than ST, NT, and OT. Aggregate associated N was generally similar under ST, NT, and OT, which was greater on average than CT. Soil MOAM-C and POM-C under ST, NT, and OT were generally greater than respective SOC fractions under CT at 19 and 26 M after OT implementation. Corn and sorghum yields were similar among tillage systems in 2020, but greater under ST, NT, and OT than CT in 2021. Our results suggest that while frequent intensive tillage can lower SOC and N storage, a single stubble mulch occasional tillage after several years of NT does not lead to soil C and N losses and soil structural instability in semi-arid drylands.(c) 2023 International Research and Training Center on Erosion and Sedimentation, China Water and Power Press, and China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research. Publishing services by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of KeAi Communications Co. Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
UT WOS:001150349300001
ER

EF