FN x
VR 1.0
PT J
AU Liang, C
   Zeng, B
   Lei, YY
   Wen, Z
   Zhang, JY
AF Liang, Chen
   Zeng, Bo
   Lei, Yueyi
   Wen, Zhu
   Zhang, Jiayi
TI Enhancing reliability of integrated electricity-water systems with data
   centers via decentralized robust planning considering decision-dependent
   uncertainties
DE Internet data center; Integrated electricity-water system; Robust
   optimization; Decision-dependent uncertainty; Coordination; Reliability
   enhancement
ID WIND POWER; CONVERGENCE
AB The rapid expansion of Internet Data Centers (IDCs) has significantly intensified the operational pressure on urban electricity and water infrastructures, necessitating the development of cross-system collaborative planning mechanisms to enhance overall system reliability. This paper proposes a tri-level robust planning framework for the coordinated optimization of IDCs and the integrated electricity-water system (IEWS) under multiple uncertainties. The upper-level model optimizes IDC resource deployment and IEWS infrastructure reinforcement investments. The middle-level model constructs decision-dependent uncertainty (DDU) and decisionindependent uncertainty (DIU) sets to jointly capture the endogenous and exogenous coupling mechanisms among load fluctuations, power grid failure scenarios, and renewable energy outputs. The lower-level model addresses system operation scheduling under worst-case disturbances to ensure operational safety and costeffectiveness. To enhance tractability and convergence efficiency, a hybrid solution approach is developed by integrating Parametric Column-and-Constraint Generation (PC&CG), Analytical Target Cascading (ATC), and Alternating Optimization Process (AOP), enabling synchronized decentralized solving across heterogeneous stakeholders. Case studies demonstrate that the proposed framework significantly improves system reliability under multiple disturbance scenarios, reducing electricity and water load shedding rates from 4.31% to 1.29% and from 6.33% to 2.15%, respectively, while enhancing system adaptability and robustness. This work provides a scalable and privacy-preserving theoretical foundation and methodological tool for robust multi-agent coplanning in integrated IDC-IEWS environments.
UT WOS:001708113800003
ER

PT J
AU Stuhlmacher, A
   Guikema, S
   Mathieu, JL
AF Stuhlmacher, Anna
   Guikema, Seth
   Mathieu, Johanna L.
TI Assessing Power and Water Network Resilience When Water Pumps Provide
   Frequency Regulation
DE Frequency control; Distribution networks; Power systems; Hazards; Water
   resources; Power system reliability; Hydraulic systems; Costs; Water
   pumps; Extreme weather; frequency regulation; power distribution
   network; resilience; water network; water network
AB Pumps in drinking water distribution networks can be operated as flexible, controllable loads to help support the electric power grid, e.g., by providing frequency regulation. However, departures from conventional water network operation should not degrade the ability of the water and power networks to respond to high impact low frequency events. In this paper, we evaluate the resilience of water and power distribution networks surrounding a storm-induced power outage given an optimal pumping strategy that minimizes electricity costs and is capable of offering frequency regulation. The water network resilience under optimal water pumping strategies is compared with its resilience under a conventional rule-based water pumping strategy. In a case study, we consider an extreme wind event that causes power outages in the power distribution network impacting pumps in the water network. We found that the optimal control strategies are significantly less expensive than the traditional rule-based strategy but the water tanks levels are lower within the optimal pumping strategies, potentially reducing water service availability during long power outages. However, we also observed that the tank levels remain further from their limits when the optimal pumping strategy provides frequency regulation in addition to minimizing electricity costs, resulting in improved resilience metrics.
UT WOS:001560302400011
ER

PT J
AU Rodriguez-Garcia, L
   Parvania, M
   Hosseini, MM
   Mosier, T
AF Rodriguez-Garcia, Luis
   Parvania, Masood
   Hosseini, Mohammad Mehdi
   Mosier, Thomas
TI Resilience Analytics for Interdependent Power and Water Distribution
   Systems
DE Resilience; Measurement; Power system reliability; Distributed power
   generation; Partial discharges; Degradation; Analytical models;
   Water-power nexus; water distribution system; power distribution system;
   resilience metric; outage analysis
ID MICROGRIDS; OPERATION; FRAMEWORK; METRICS
AB The occurrence of large-scale outages in power distribution systems (PDSs) caused, for instance, by extreme weather events has raised concerns on the cascading impact of the power outages on the resilience of other critical infrastructures, including water distribution systems (WDSs), whose healthy operation highly relies on the availability of power from PDSs. This paper proposes an analytics model for quantifying the interdependence between the resilience of power and water distribution systems. The proposed model first performs spatio-temporal outage analysis on the PDS and WDS to determine the PDS power serving capability and the resulting cascading impact on the WDS water serving capability during the occurrence of disruptions. The resilience interdependence is then determined by a proposed set of six metrics calculated using the power and water serving capability profiles, which trace and quantify the cascading impacts of power outages in the operation of WDSs during the degradation and recovery stages. The proposed analytics model is implemented on the IEEE 33-bus power distribution system supplying power for pumping stations of a 15-node test WDS, considering multiple cases of water storage capacity, single and multiple outage scenarios, and availability of distributed generation. The numerical results demonstrate that the proposed metrics track the temporal and spatial interdependence between the resilience of power and water distribution systems, providing a mechanism to identify weak spots, and assess options to enhance the resilience of the critical water infrastructure.
UT WOS:000871076600012
ER

PT J
AU Liu, Y
   Li, CY
   Tang, JY
   Yao, YM
   Xie, KG
   Hu, B
   Shao, CZ
   Wu, T
AF Liu, Yang
   Li, Chunyan
   Tang, Jiyuan
   Yao, Yiming
   Xie, Kaigui
   Hu, Bo
   Shao, Changzheng
   Wu, Tao
TI Reliability Evaluation of Integrated Electricity-Water System Based on
   Multi-State Models of Equipment in Water System
DE integrated electricity-water system; Markov chain Monte Carlo;
   reliability evaluation; RO desalination plant; water system
AB The power system and the water system are two important infrastructures of human society that are closely related and interdependent. However, the reliability problems of the power system and water system are becoming more and more prominent. To better reveal the impact of the complex coupling relationship between the power system and the water system on the reliability of the Integrated Electricity-Water System (IEWS), this paper investigates a reliability evaluation method of the IEWS based on multi-state models of equipment in the water system. Firstly, a multi-state reliability model is established based on the failure mechanism of equipment in the water system, such as pipes and Reverse Osmosis (RO) desalination plants. Secondly, combined with the multi-state model of equipment in the water system and the Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) method, the IEWS reliability evaluation method is established. Finally, two IEWSs with different scales are simulated to verify the validity and adaptability of the proposed model.
UT WOS:001442336600001
ER

PT J
AU Montoya-Rincon, JP
   Mejia-Manrique, SA
   Azad, S
   Ghandehari, M
   Harmsen, EW
   Khanbilvardi, R
   Gonzalez-Cruz, JE
AF Montoya-Rincon, Juan P.
   Mejia-Manrique, Said A.
   Azad, Shams
   Ghandehari, Masoud
   Harmsen, Eric W.
   Khanbilvardi, Reza
   Gonzalez-Cruz, Jorge E.
TI A socio-technical approach for the assessment of critical infrastructure
   system vulnerability in extreme weather events
ID SOCIAL VULNERABILITY; POWER; WATER; HAZARDS; SANDY
AB The recurrence of extreme weather events has led to the development of methods for assessing the vulnerability and interdependencies of physical and human systems. A case example is Hurricane Maria (H-Maria), where Puerto Rico experienced damage to 80% of its electrical power system, leading to massive disruptions of essential services for months. Here we evaluate the effectiveness of various interventions aimed at reducing vulnerability by considering power and water infrastructure and respective water-power dependencies while also considering the social vulnerability of affected communities associated with the physical infrastructure upgrades. On the basis of the current infrastructure configuration, we found that all communities suffered enormously from power and water outages. As one upgrade option, we show that incorporating regional energy grids would reduce outages in an H-Maria scenario. However, a large portion of disadvantaged communities will face service disruption under this option. In contrast, hardening transmission lines, as the second option, would improve service delivery and, most importantly, provide uninterrupted service to the higher portion of the vulnerable population.
   Extreme weather events can have catastrophic impacts on physical systems such as power and water infrastructure. This study offers an approach to testing interventions to reduce the vulnerability of such systems to weather events and applies it to the case of Hurricane Maria to assess service-level and social outcomes.
UT WOS:001040238700001
ER

PT J
AU Atat, R
   Ismail, M
   Serpedin, E
AF Atat, Rachad
   Ismail, Muhammad
   Serpedin, Erchin
TI Joint Cascade Vulnerability Assessment of Interdependent Power-Water
   Infrastructures
DE Cascading failure; interdependent infrastructures; power grid;
   vulnerability; water distribution system (WDS)
ID CYBER-PHYSICAL ATTACKS; DATA INJECTION ATTACKS; DISTRIBUTION-SYSTEMS;
   RESILIENCE; OPERATION; NETWORKS; MODEL
AB The joint operation and coordination of power and water infrastructures have made them more vulnerable than before to cyber-physical attacks. This is because each system relies on the other to provide its services. Such a mutual dependence increases the risk of large-scale cascading failures. Therefore, it becomes of utmost importance to analyze the vulnerability of interdependent power-water infrastructures. To accurately quantify the overall damage due to cascading failure propagation, the vulnerability assessment should consider not only the topological features but also the power dynamics and the hydraulic features. Existing works fail to identify the combination of nodes that present the greatest damage. To fill up this gap, this article proposes and examines a low-complexity vulnerability assessment strategy based on the most critical nodes, which maximizes the overall damage. Experiments are conducted on two different power-water systems. It is shown that the proposed strategy identifies the most vulnerable nodes that cause a high damage impact from either or both systems, but with a much lower computational time compared to the one that selects the target nodes based on how much damage they inflict upon the system. A visual assessment of the physical disturbances under the most vulnerable nodes is presented.
UT WOS:001078344600001
ER

PT J
AU Yang, YS
   Li, ZM
   Mandapaka, PV
   Lo, EYM
AF Yang, Yesen
   Li, Zhengmao
   V. Mandapaka, Pradeep
   Lo, Edmond Y. M.
TI Risk-averse restoration of coupled power and water systems with small
   pumped-hydro storage and stochastic rooftop renewables
DE Restoration; Interdependency; Critical infrastructure; Optimization
   model; Power-water systems; Risk-averse stochastic programming
ID OPTIMIZATION; SIMULATION; OPERATION
AB Modern coupled power and water (CPW) systems exhibit increasing integration and interdependence, which challenges system performance to disasters and makes service restoration complex during post-disruption. Meanwhile, new technologies, such as small pumped-hydro storage (PHS) and rooftop renewables, are being widely installed and further deepen the interdependencies. To capture these features and improve overall performance, this paper proposes a coordinated restoration framework for a CPW system to respond to disruptions. The proposed CPW model comprises physical networks and mechanisms, considering available units, such as water desalination/treatment plants, pump stations and small PHS, in the water system, and rooftop renewables, distributed generators, in power system. The interdependencies are modeled through component-wise connections and consumer behavior, then grouped into three phases: production, distribution, and consumption. Aggregate service loss with respect to different consumer loads and time periods, is chosen as performance metric and to be minimized using network reconfiguration, energy/water dispatching, load curtailment, and operation management of components. A two-stage risk-averse stochastic programming is applied for reliable restoration and manage risks, to tackle the uncertainties in renewable power generations and water/power demands that affect method effectiveness. Finally, the method is implemented on a modified 33-bus/25-node CPW system, and the results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed restoration framework.
UT WOS:000957255400001
ER

PT C
AU Chen, YH
   Zhang, L
   Ren, JG
   Jin, L
AF Chen, Yunhan
   Zhang, Li
   Ren, Juguang
   Jin, Li
GP IEEE
TI An Optimal Method for Locating and Sizing Distributed Generations
   Considering Critical Infrastructures Interconnection for Urban
   Distribution Network Restoration
DE distributed generations with renewable energy sources; locating and
   sizing; urban distribution network restoration; water-electricity
   coupling
AB The urban distribution network will separated from the large-scale centralized power system when disasters occur, causing a series of internal random faults and resulting in serious shortage of energy supply. Distributed Generations (DGs) with renewable energy is significant to restore critical loads and the energy supplying of important interconnected infrastructures to maintain the operation of cities. This paper proposes an optimization method for locating and sizing DGs: (1) Monte Carlo simulation to set faulted scenarios of the urban distribution network after disasters. (2) A mixed integer second-order cone program (MISOCP) is proposed to minimize the number and capacity of DGs, considering the constraints of DGs, water supply network, distribution network and water-electricity coupling relationship. (3) Representative planning solutions are selected from the aspects of power supply reliability, DGs configuration economy, and faulted lines severity. (4) It is proved that the optimization method is effective, multiple-selectivity and forward-looking for the loads restoration and emergency response after disasters, so as to promote the sustainable development of cities with DGs' low-carbon and flexibility.
UT WOS:000899805800233
ER

PT J
AU Wan, HY
   Liu, WX
   Shi, QX
   Zhu, R
   Zhang, XC
   Zhao, J
AF Wan, Haiyang
   Liu, Wenxia
   Shi, Qingxin
   Zhu, Ran
   Zhang, Xiaochen
   Zhao, Jin
TI Real-Time Service Restoration of Coupled Power-Water Systems Considering
   the Spatio-Temporal Cascading Failure
DE Power system protection; Power system faults; Maintenance engineering;
   Indexes; Contingency management; Transient analysis; Computational
   modeling; Real-time systems; Decision making; Pipelines; Service
   restoration; coupled power-water systems; water flow dynamics; water
   transfer delays; cascading failures; deep reinforcement learning
ID ALLOCATION
AB The interdependence between power distribution systems (PDS) and water distribution systems (WDS) plays a critical role in the coupled power-water systems (CPWSs) service restoration. However, the transient water flow dynamics in WDS were omitted in existing studies, leading to impractical restoration plans. To address this gap, this article proposes a decision-making method for the CPWSs service restoration considering the spatio-temporal cascading failure. By integrating a WDS transient hydraulic model into the CPWSs service restoration optimization, this method enables dynamic adjustments of repair crew dispatch and network reconfiguration plans to adapt to water flow dynamics. Moreover, to enable real-time and adaptive decision-making for unexpected contingencies in extreme events, an offline deep reinforcement learning (DRL) approach is introduced. By pre-training on a dataset collected from the proposed stochastic contingencies simulations, this method can remarkably mitigate the computational burden associated with WDS transient flow analysis, and eliminate the need for frequent agent-environment interactions. Case studies on a modified 14-bus/15-node CPWS and a 118-bus/71-node CPWS are conducted to demonstrate the effectiveness and robustness of the proposed method.
UT WOS:001650790300011
ER

PT J
AU Thompson, JR
   Frezza, D
   Necioglu, B
   Cohen, ML
   Hoffman, K
   Rosfjord, K
AF Thompson, James R.
   Frezza, Damon
   Necioglu, Burhan
   Cohen, Michael L.
   Hoffman, Kenneth
   Rosfjord, Kristine
TI Interdependent Critical Infrastructure Model (ICIM): An agent-based
   model of power and water infrastructure
DE Critical infrastructure; Agent-based model; Long-term planning
AB The comfort, mobility, and economic well-being of a population depends on reliable and affordable electric power services, which in turn requires a sustainable water supply. It is therefore increasingly important to analyze the sustainability and resilience of mid- and long-term electric utility and water system capacity expansion plans. Due to the inherent interdependency between power and water critical infrastructure, these expansion plans should be analyzed with respect to potential challenges posed by climate change and other risks. Decision-makers therefore require tools that facilitate an integrated analysis that captures the interdependency of power and water to better inform future expansion plans. Here we develop an agent-based model of a typical regional power system that incorporates the features of specific plant types and their cooling systems that are dependent on adequate water supplies at appropriate temperatures to support full power operation. The effects of capacity expansion plans, power demand growth, climate change, and extreme events are analyzed through different scenarios designed to illustrate the utility of such a model and show where it can aid in mid- and long-term planning. Keywords: Critical infrastructure Agent-based model Long-term planning. (C) 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000459143700012
ER

PT J
AU Munikoti, S
   Lai, KX
   Natarajan, B
AF Munikoti, Sai
   Lai, Kexing
   Natarajan, Balasubramaniam
TI Robustness assessment of Hetero-functional graph theory based model of
   interdependent urban utility networks
DE Hetero-functional graph theory; Interdependent urban infrastructure;
   Robustness; Contingency
ID NATURAL-GAS; ELECTRIC-POWER; SIMULATION
AB Increasing urban population imposes a substantial and growing burden on the supporting infrastructure, such as electricity, water, heating, natural gas, road transportation. This paper presents a Hetero-functional graph theory (HFGT) based modeling framework for these integrated infrastructures followed by an analysis of network robustness. The supporting infrastructures along with the infrastructure repair facilities are considered. In contrast to conventional graph representations, a weighted HFGT model is used to capture the system processes and mutual dependencies among resources. To assess robustness of interdependent networks, impacts of complete/partial and random/targeted attacks are quantified. Specifically, various attack scenarios are simulated and the vulnerability of the network is evaluated. Additionally, several robustness metrics are used to provide a comprehensive evaluation of system robustness. The proposed weighted HFGT modeling and robustness assessment approach is tested using a synthetic interdependent network, comprising of an electrical power system, a water network, a district heating network, a natural gas system and a road transportation network. Results demonstrate that system robustness can be enhanced via securing system information and mitigating attack strength.
UT WOS:000663910000028
ER

PT J
AU Zuloaga, S
   Khatavkar, P
   Mays, L
   Vittal, V
AF Zuloaga, Scott
   Khatavkar, Puneet
   Mays, Larry
   Vittal, Vijay
TI Resilience of Cyber-Enabled Electrical Energy and Water Distribution
   Systems Considering Infrastructural Robustness Under Conditions of
   Limited Water and/or Energy Availability
DE Resilience; Measurement; Indexes; Power systems; Real-time systems;
   Cooling; Optimization; Electric power system (EPS); extended time-domain
   simulations; infrastructural resilience (IR); operational resilience
   (OR); real-time operations; water distribution systems (WDS); water
   energy nexus
ID SUSTAINABILITY ASSESSMENT; FRAMEWORK; ENHANCE
AB New metrics and a new methodology for determining system infrastructural-operational resilience are presented for the optimal real-time operation of two critical interdependent infrastructure systems-the water distribution systems (WDS) and the electric power system (EPS) under critical conditions of limited water and/or limited electrical energy resulting from extreme drought or electric grid failure, respectively. Operational resilience (OR) and infrastructural resilience are defined. The integrated resilience computation method is presented and utilizes results from a combined optimization-simulation framework, which involves capturing the interactions and associated dynamics between the EPS and WDS. A realistic example of the WDS and EPS is used to demonstrate the application of the resilience concepts to assess the interdependent systems' performance.
UT WOS:000761208300011
ER

PT J
AU Pietsch, M
   Steinke, F
AF Pietsch, Martin
   Steinke, Florian
TI The water energy nexus: Improved emergency grid restoration with DERs
DE Distribution grid restoration; Network inter-dependencies;
   Water-energy-nexus
ID UNBALANCED DISTRIBUTION-SYSTEMS; SERVICE RESTORATION; MODEL
AB Water networks as critical infrastructures typically feature emergency electricity generators for bridging short power blackouts. We propose to combine these black start capable generators with available distributed energy resources (DERs) in the power grid, often photovoltaic generation, to jointly restore both the electricity and the water grid in the case of emergencies. This is mutually beneficial for both notworks since common grid-following inverters of DERs cannot supply power without a grid-forming nucleus. We model both grids as a coupled graph and formulate a stochastic mixed-integer linear program to determine optimal switch placement and/or optimal switching sequences jointly for both networks. Limited fuel and power availabilities, grid-forming constraints, storages, and an even distribution of available resources are considered. By minimizing the number of switching devices and switching events we target manual operability. The proposed method extends the time that can be bridged until a full restoration of the main power grid is achieved. For a small example, we demonstrate that given enough solar radiation our solution allows us to extend the water supply duration by a factor of two, compared to using the emergency generators only for the water network, while additionally almost half of the electricity demands can be resupplied. Algorithmic scaling is validated with a combination of the IEEE 123-bus test feeder and the D-Town water network.
UT WOS:000856623900007
ER

PT J
AU Kong, JJ
   Simonovic, SP
   Zhang, C
AF Kong, Jingjing
   Simonovic, Slobodan P.
   Zhang, Chao
TI Resilience Assessment of Interdependent Infrastructure Systems: A Case
   Study Based on Different Response Strategies
DE resilience; infrastructure system; multilayer network; infrastructure
   interdependence; restoration strategy
ID SEISMIC RESILIENCE; FRAMEWORK; VULNERABILITY; NETWORKS; METRICS; MODEL
AB Resilient infrastructure systems are essential for continuous and reliable functioning of social and economic systems. Taking advantage of network theory, this paper models street network, water supply network, power grid and information infrastructure network as layers that are integrated into a multilayer network. The infrastructure interdependencies are described using five basic dependence patterns of fundamental network elements. Definitions of dynamic cascading failures and recovery mechanisms of infrastructure systems are also established. The main contribution of the paper is a new infrastructure network resilience measure capable of addressing complex infrastructure system, as well as network component (layer) interdependences. The new measure is based on infrastructure network performance, proactive absorptive capacity and reactive restorative capacity, with three resilience features of network-robustness, resourcefulness, and rapidity. The quantitative resilience measure using dynamic space-time simulation model is illustrated with a multilayer infrastructure network numerical test, including different response strategies to floods of different scale. The results demonstrate that the resilience measure provides an evaluation method of various protection and restoration strategies that will optimize the performance of interdependent infrastructure system. The sector-specific decisions could not always lead to optimal system solutions, and systems approach offers significant benefits for increasing infrastructure system resilience. This study can assist municipal decision makers in (i) better understanding the effects of different response strategies on the resilience of interdependent infrastructure system, and (ii) deciding which strategy should be adopted under different types of disasters.
UT WOS:000508186400024
ER

PT J
AU Adachi, T
   Ellingwood, BR
AF Adachi, Takao
   Ellingwood, Bruce R.
TI Serviceability of earthquake-damaged water systems: Effects of
   electrical power availability and power backup systems on system
   vulnerability
DE earthquakes; electrical power; fragility; infrastructure; lifeline
   systems; networks; probability; reliability; water distribution
ID GROUND-MOTION; ATTENUATION RELATIONS
AB Civil infrastructure systems, such as water, electrical power, natural gas, and transportation systems, are essential to the smooth functioning of modern society. Because of their inter-connected nature, once one infrastructure system is damaged by an earthquake or other natural hazard, other infrastructure systems may malfunction as well. A number of previous studies have assessed vulnerability of infrastructure systems to earthquakes, but seldom have failures due to infrastructure system interactions been considered. In its assessment of the earthquake-induced damage of a municipal water system, this paper includes the impact of damage to the supporting electrical power system using a fault tree analysis and a shortest-path algorithm. The effect of uncertainty of seismic intensity and component fragility on network integrity is evaluated. A case study involving a simple model of the electrical power system and water system in Shelby County. TN, which includes the city of Memphis, demonstrates the importance of taking infrastructure interactions into account when evaluating the seismic vulnerability and risk to a networked system, as well as the utility of back-up power systems in electric power facilities. (C) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000250637000005
ER

PT J
AU Zhang, YM
   Zhang, HY
   Wang, SQ
   Li, ZW
   Tan, RR
   Wang, F
   Jia, XP
AF Zhang, Yanmei
   Zhang, Haoyuan
   Wang, Siqi
   Li, Zhiwei
   Tan, Raymond R.
   Wang, Fang
   Jia, Xiaoping
TI Vulnerability analysis of water systems to power interruptions in
   critical infrastructures
DE Water-power nexus; Critical infrastructures; Vulnerability indicators;
   Cascade failure; Scenario simulation
ID INTERDEPENDENT POWER; ENERGY NEXUS; RESILIENCE; NETWORKS; FAILURES
AB The operation of the water distribution system is highly dependent on the power supply. Previous studies that focused on static cascading failures in interdependent water and power distribution systems fail to account for their dynamic response to disturbances. To address this gap, this study develops a cascading failure analysis model to simulate their dynamic response to disturbances. Vulnerability assessment indicators are also proposed based on Water Service Capability (SCW) and Power Service Capability (SCP) evolution curves under disturbance scenarios to quantify ripple effects of power interruptions on water distribution systems. Using a 15-node testing water distribution system with a pumping station power supply system as an example. Generating storm scenarios for time-series simulation using Monte Carlo sampling. Results show that SCW exhibits short-term vulnerability to power interruptions but maintains robust buffering and recovery capabilities over the medium to long term. SCW loss duration is on average 4.5 times longer than SCP. Storage tanks delay water supply loss to demand nodes about 4 h longer than the pump failure time. Vulnerability of water distribution systems increases with longer pump failure durations. The proposed model can provide decision support for reducing cascading vulnerability of interconnected power and water networks to cascading failures by allowing alternative designs and modifications to be simulated.
UT WOS:001740781200001
ER

PT J
AU Li, DS
   Gao, CW
   Chen, T
   Zuo, J
   Wu, XH
AF Li, Dongsen
   Gao, Ciwei
   Chen, Tao
   Zuo, Juan
   Wu, Xinhong
TI Day-Ahead Scheduling of Integrated Power and Water System Considering a
   Refined Model of Power-to-Gas
DE Electricity supply industry; Low-carbon economy; Decision making; Power
   system management; Integrated design; Water resources; Power-to-gas;
   integrated power and water system; refined model; intermittency;
   information gap decision theory
AB To accommodate surplus electricity and decarbonize, power-to-gas (PtG) is being widely considered in the integrated energy system with high proportion of renewable energy. However, the reaction model of PtG should be refined for the sake of making a precise operation strategy and economic evaluation. Compared with the ordinary model of power-to-gas process, this article makes two main improvements. First, an explicit expression of electrolytic process is given according to the usage of electricity. In the refined electrolytic model, the recovery of the extra heat in the electrolytic process and the compression of feed-in gas is explored. Second, the response model of the methanation process to the intermittency of the renewable energy is established. Considering the increasing coupling of power system and water network, we formulate a day-ahead scheduling program for an integrated power and water system (IPWS). Thus, the role of double regulation of power-to-gas is more noticeable. Finally, the accuracy and economical performance of the refined model of power-to-gas is demonstrated through case studies. The results show a significant body of recoverable extra heat reaching 26.6% of the total power consumption. Also, it shows a dramatic growth in PtG's consumption by 61.9% considering compression consumption. Moreover, the information gap decision theory (IGDT) is applied in the unit commitment scheme. Based on IGDT, the impact of the renewable energy uncertainty on the decision-making of IPWS operator is discussed.
UT WOS:000848207000001
ER

PT J
AU Ayyash, F
   Javadi, AA
   Farmani, R
AF Ayyash, Faten
   Javadi, Akbar A.
   Farmani, Raziyeh
TI Enhancing Resilience of Intermittent Water Supply Systems to Power
   Outages
DE Intermittent water supply (IWS); Electricity intermittency; Global
   resilience analysis (GRA)
ID MANAGEMENT; EQUITY; RISKS; SAFE
AB An estimated 1.3 billion people in South Asia, Latin America, and Africa receive water for domestic purposes through piped networks for limited periods, referred to as intermittent water supply (IWS). Electricity intermittency is one of the main causes of water supply intermittency. In water supply systems, electrical power is used for pumping water from the sources to the treatment plants and then to users via the water distribution systems (WDSs). If the electrical power system fails to supply at WDSs pumping stations, this will lead to failure in water distribution systems. To ensure more sustainable IWS systems, evaluating and enhancing water infrastructure resilience is crucial. Understanding the underlying system's inherent resilience is a prerequisite for enhancing its resilience. This study presents a novel approach for investigating the performance of an IWS system under power outage (modeled as pump failure) scenarios and identifying potential intervention strategies to enhance network resilience to limited power availability. The proposed methodology employs a two-step strategy: in the first step a global resilience analysis approach is used to investigate the performance of an IWS system under pump failure scenarios to identify and localize its main vulnerabilities. In the second step optimum adaptation intervention strategies are identified by the application of the evolutionary multiobjective optimization method. A nondominated sorting genetic algorithm (NSGA-II) is used for the optimum operation and rehabilitation of IWS systems considering three objectives: the operation and rehabilitation costs, the level of equity, and the proportion of effective supply hours. The results show that while the adaptation strategy of optimal operation intervention improved equity and effective supply hours slightly, the adaptation strategies of optimum operation and rehabilitation intervention significantly increased the system resilience to power outage/pump failure scenarios by improving both equity and effective supply hours.
UT WOS:001444664100001
ER

PT J
AU Ma, TH
   Xu, CS
   Hou, BW
AF Ma, Tianhe
   Xu, Chengshun
   Hou, Benwei
TI Quantifying the dependent failure of urban power-water supply systems
   under earthquake hazards from the perspective of energy transfer
DE Power-water supply system; Seismic performance; Dependent failure;
   Energy transfer; Functionality analysis
ID INFRASTRUCTURE SYSTEMS; RESILIENCE
AB Urban power-water systems (PWSs) exhibit complex dependence that exacerbates the degradation of their infrastructure service capacity under earthquake hazards. Existing earthquake risk analysis frameworks for PWSs usually characterize the system dependencies as binary states through joint failure probabilities, which fail to capture the dynamics of cascading failure among dependent PWSs. From the perspective of energy transfer among the dependent infrastructure systems, this study proposes a novel seismic performance analysis framework for urban PWS to reveal the energy transfer amid the power system (PS), water distribution system (WDS), and terminal users, which integrates power flow and water hydraulic models. A dual-network model is first constructed to characterize PWS with directional dependency between power substations and water treatment plants. Seismic damage samples of PWS are then generated by seismic fragility models of components and quasiMonte Carlo simulations. Finally, two real-world PWS cases are employed to validate the effectiveness of this framework. Results show that the proposed framework is capable of depicting the WDS performance that lies between the fully and non-power supply, which is usually higher than the estimations by the previous binarydependent failure model of the PWS, providing a new perspective for disaster risk reduction of PWS.
UT WOS:001864815800001
ER

PT J
AU Najafi, J
   Peiravi, A
   Anvari-Moghaddam, A
   Guerrero, JM
AF Najafi, Javad
   Peiravi, Ali
   Anvari-Moghaddam, Amjad
   Guerrero, Josep. M.
TI An efficient interactive framework for improving resilience of
   power-water distribution systems with multiple privately-owned
   microgrids
DE Microgrids; Natural disasters; Resilience; Stochastic linear
   programming; Water network
ID DEMAND RESPONSE; EXTREME; RESTORATION
AB Resilience improvement of power distribution networks against natural disasters is an important problem. Water network similar to other important infrastructures depends on power networks. In this paper, resilience improvement is defined as increasing the users' accessibility to water and power after natural disasters. Microgrids with appropriate operation can provide energy to restore disconnected loads in distribution networks. In the proposed interactive framework, a stochastic energy management program for microgrids is designed that not only determines the amount of energy can be delivered to distribution systems, but also considers the reliability of local loads during emergency conditions. Each microgrid provides a list of bid-quantity energy blocks to the distribution system operator (DSO) during the emergency period. Then, the DSO chooses the best plan to restore disconnected loads considering inaccessibility values to power and water and also the damage of power and water distribution networks. Demand response actions in microgrids are also considered as effective tools for the energy management program, and their impact on the distribution system resilience is investigated. The proposed model is tested on the modified IEEE 33-bus distribution system with multiple microgrids, and the effectiveness of the proposed method is validated accordingly.
UT WOS:000499733200049
ER

PT J
AU Yang, YS
   Li, ZM
   Lo, EY
AF Yang, Yesen
   Li, Zhengmao
   Lo, Edmond Y.
TI Multi-timescale risk-averse restoration for interdependent water-power
   networks with joint reconfiguration and diverse uncertainties
DE Interdependent water-power systems; Restoration; Joint reconfiguration;
   Robust optimization; Risk-averse stochastic programming
ID SYSTEMS; INFRASTRUCTURE; OPTIMIZATION; MODEL
AB The growing interdependencies between water and power systems have increased the risk of cascading disruptions and widespread blackouts. Such interdependencies, together with different operational characteristics and multiple uncertainties, introduce additional complexities to service restoration. To address these issues, this paper proposes a coordinated multi-timescale restoration strategy for interdependent water-power networks (IWPNs). First, we model the IWPN as network-based with physical mechanisms, incorporating component-wise interdependencies and varying consumer demands. Features comprising pipe damage (water leakage) and storage as well as renewable generations are modelled to better reflect restoration better. Specifically, the joint reconfigurability of water and power networks is first applied for adjustment of topologies and leverages off backup components by coordinated setting of valves and switches. Then, an updated estimation for multiple uncertainties during restoration is utilized, which offers increasing clarity to support better decision-making. These uncertainties arise from renewable generations and water and power demands. A multi-timescale decision framework is developed to capture these effects and tune restoration measures based on response speeds to facilitate efficient and reliable restoration. Finally, the method is implemented by combining robust optimization and risk-averse stochastic programming and applied to a community-scale test system with 25 water nodes and 33 power buses. The proposed method is compared with five conventional methods with numerical results demonstrating the improvements arising from an interdependent restoration, joint reconfigurability, and multi-timescale optimizations.
UT WOS:001479464500001
ER

PT J
AU Stodle, K
   Metcalfe, CA
   Brunner, LG
   Saliani, JN
   Flage, R
   Guikema, SD
AF Stodle, Kaia
   Metcalfe, Caroline A.
   Brunner, Logan G.
   Saliani, Julian N.
   Flage, Roger
   Guikema, Seth D.
TI Dependent infrastructure system modeling: A case study of the St. Kitts
   power and water distribution systems
DE Critical infrastructures; dependencies; modeling; case study
ID VULNERABILITY ANALYSIS; NETWORKS; OUTAGES; POLES
AB Critical infrastructure systems underlie the economy, national security, and health of modern society. These infrastructures have become increasingly dependent on each other, which poses challenges when modeling these systems. Although a number of methods have been developed for this problem, few case studies that model realworld dependent infrastructures have been conducted. In this paper, we aim to provide another example of such a case study by modeling a real-world water distribution system dependent on a power system. Unlike in the limited previous case studies, our case study is in a developing nation context. This makes the availability of data about the infrastructure systems in this case study very limited, which is a common characteristic of real-world studies in many settings. Thus, a main contribution of the paper is to show how one can still develop representative, useful models for systems in the context of limited data. To demonstrate the utility of these types of models, two examples of different analyses are performed, where the results provide information about the most vulnerable parts of the infrastructures and critical linkages between the power and water distribution systems.
UT WOS:000663909200006
ER

PT J
AU Almoghathawi, Y
   Barker, K
   Albert, LA
AF Almoghathawi, Yasser
   Barker, Kash
   Albert, Laura A.
TI Resilience-driven restoration model for interdependent infrastructure
   networks
DE Interdependent networks; Resilience; Restoration; Optimization;
   Mixed-integer programming
ID VULNERABILITY ANALYSIS; STOCHASTIC-MEASURES; SYSTEMS; RECOVERY; METRICS;
   DESIGN; DEFINITIONS; SIMULATION; ALLOCATION; FAILURES
AB Critical infrastructure networks such as electric power, water distribution, natural gas, transportation and telecommunications are the backbone of modern societies as they provide them with the services that are essential for their continuous functioning. However, these infrastructure networks are not isolated from each other but instead, most of them rely on one another to be functional. Hence, they are highly vulnerable to any disruptive event (e.g., components deteriorating, terrorist attacks, or natural disasters) which makes their restoration more challenging task for decision makers. In this paper, we study the restoration problem of a system of interdependent infrastructure networks following a disruption event considering different disruptions scenarios. We propose a resilience-driven multi-objective restoration model using mixed-integer programming that aims to maximize the resilience of the system of interdependent infrastructure networks while minimizing the total cost associated with the restoration process. The restoration model considers the availability of limited time and resources and provides a prioritized list of components, nodes or links, to be restored along with assigning and scheduling them to the available work crews. The proposed model is illustrated through a generated system of interdependent power-water networks, however it is applicable to any physically interdependent networks.
UT WOS:000459949900002
ER

PT J
AU Maraqa, SN
   Karakoc, DB
   Ghorbani-Renani, N
   Barker, K
   González, AD
AF Maraqa, Saf'a N.
   Karakoc, Deniz Berfin
   Ghorbani-Renani, Nafiseh
   Barker, Kash
   Gonzalez, Andres D.
TI Project schedule compression for the efficient restoration of
   interdependent infrastructure systems
DE Interdependent infrastructure networks; Resilience; Restoration
   planning; Project management; Schedule compression; Multi-objective
   optimization
ID NETWORK DESIGN; RESILIENCE; MODEL; OPTIMIZATION; VULNERABILITY
AB The timely restoration of infrastructure networks is critical for society's functionality and wellbeing. However, it is also a substantially challenging task due to the various logistic and resource restrictions from time to budget and work crew availability. Restoration of infrastructure networks is a time-sensitive task as even a slight delay might cause inconvenience or worse to the community for an extended period. As such, diverse models have centered on determining optimal recovery sequences so that recovery time is minimized. However, in some circumstances, given the importance of a timely recovery, even optimal sequences may not result in a quick enough restoration. To address this problem, this paper proposes a multi-objective model for enhanced restoration based on a mixed integer linear programming model that determines optimal job sequencing and crew assignment for a system of interdependent infrastructure networks, while determining key areas for crashing schedule compression, where additional resources would help expedite the full restoration. The implications of project crashing are represented by a cost benefit analysis for a set of solutions enabling the decision maker to study the tradeoffs between restoration duration and restoration cost. The proposed model is applied to a system of interdependent water, power, and gas networks in Shelby County, TN, USA.
UT WOS:000833559100016
ER

PT J
AU Liu, XN
   Li, JL
   Li, ZL
   Ji, YB
AF Liu, Xinnan
   Li, Jialu
   Li, Zhanling
   Ji, Yingbo
TI Vulnerability analyses of power-water interdependent infrastructure
   networks by using load-functional dependency coupled cascading failure
   model
DE Interdependent infrastructure networks; Cascading failure; Load
   dynamics; Functional dependency; Vulnerability analyses
ID ATTACK VULNERABILITY; ROBUSTNESS
AB Previous studies on vulnerability analyses of interdependent critical infrastructure networks are mainly based on cascading failure models that only consider the effect of network topologies and binary dependencies, overlooking progressive functional degradation. This study proposes a novel cascading failure model that explicitly couples load dynamics with progressive functional dependency in power-water interdependent infrastructure networks. By introducing execution performance parameter as a quantitative indicator, the proposed model establishes a bidirectional feedback mechanism between load redistribution and functional dependency-induced performance loss. The proposed model is applied to analyze vulnerability of a county-scale power-water interdependent infrastructure network in Zibo, China. Results show that vulnerability of power-water interdependent infrastructure networks will be underestimated by neglecting dynamic coupling of load dynamics and functional dependency. Moreover, node attributes only account for 24.5% of the functional degradation, suggesting that network vulnerability predominantly emerges from dynamic coupling of load dynamics and functional dependency. This study provides a new practical approach for analyzing vulnerability and improving resilience of interdependent critical infrastructure networks.
UT WOS:001813850000001
ER

PT J
AU Zhang, JC
   Chen, JJ
   Yang, DC
   Liu, C
AF Zhang, Jicheng
   Chen, Jiajia
   Yang, Dechang
   Liu, Cong
TI Robust learning-enabled voltage control for water-electricity systems
   under incomplete topology and parameter information
DE Water-electricity coupled systems; Topology uncertainty; Parameter
   uncertainty; Robust voltage control; Nested convex body chasing
AB Water-electricity coupled systems play a vital role in the integrated management of energy and water resources, improving resource efficiency and system resilience. However, frequent topological switching, communication gaps, and time-varying electrical couplings severely challenge voltage stability. This paper develops a unified learning-control framework for water-electricity coupled systems under incomplete topology and parameter in formation, aiming to achieve robust voltage control while improving voltage stability and hydraulic safety. A nested convex body chasing algorithm enables joint online identification, while a robust model predictive con troller with a dynamic buffer term compensates for estimation errors and disturbances. Theoretical guarantees are provided via finite bounds on constraint violations under worst-case conditions. The proposed method is val idated on a coupled system consisting of a Southern California Edison 56-bus power distribution network and a 15-node water distribution network. Simulation results demonstrate that, even under the challenging case where both the power-grid topology and the WDN parameters are completely unknown, the proposed method largely maintains system-wide voltages within the prescribed safety limits. The average voltage-violation magnitude over the entire dispatch horizon is only 0.0322 kV, showing a clear improvement over the no control and two-stage control strategies. Meanwhile, the WDN experiences no hydraulic-head violations and retains an average hydraulic-head safety margin of 16.679 m.
UT WOS:001830127300001
ER

PT J
AU Moazeni, F
   Khazaei, J
   Mitra, P
AF Moazeni, Faegheh
   Khazaei, Javad
   Mitra, Prasenjit
TI An integrated state-estimation framework for interdependent water and
   energy systems
DE Water-energy nexus; State-estimation; Bad data detection; False data
   injection; Newton-Raphson method; Water distribution system; Electric
   power grid
ID VULNERABILITY; ALGORITHM; RESPECT; MODELS
AB Recent studies have shown indisputable evidence indicating water and energy networks are two interdependent cyber-physical networks and should be operated cooperatively to maximize their efficiency and resiliency. However, current state-estimation models of water and energy infrastructures are implemented independently in their respective control centers. Such independent state-estimation in energy or water network might not be able to detect false data injections in the other network. In this paper, an integrated state-estimation framework is proposed to process the consistency of the data and estimate the parameters of a combined water and energy network. Compared to standalone state-estimation, an integrated framework proposed in this work makes it more difficult for the attackers to launch stealthy false data injections, as more parameters are involved in the state-estimation that need to be modified for a successful attack. The findings of this research confirm that by accounting for interlinks between hydrological and energy systems, the security of both systems will be improved. The interconnection between the state variables and measurements of the water-energy network is reflected in the energy consuming components of the water system, and is achieved through the measurements of pump's active power consumption in the proposed integrated estimation framework. The framework includes Newton's iterative method for an alternating current (AC) state-estimation procedure for the energy network. The state-estimation of the energy network includes the estimation of voltages using measured parameters of the energy network such as active/reactive power flow/injection or voltages. Moreover, a three-tier state-estimation process based on Newton's iterative method for the water network is contemplated to attain nodal heads, nodal demands, and the flow rate of the pipes without pumps. An integrated bad data detection algorithm is also supplemented to the proposed framework to detect potential bad data in water distribution system or energy network and enhance the resilience of the integrated water energy systems.
UT WOS:000599754500120
ER

PT J
AU Li, JX
   Xu, Y
   Wang, Y
   Li, M
   He, JH
   Liu, CC
   Schneider, KP
AF Li, Jiaxu
   Xu, Yin
   Wang, Ying
   Li, Meng
   He, Jinghan
   Liu, Chen-Ching
   Schneider, Kevin P.
TI Resilience-Motivated Distribution System Restoration Considering
   Electricity-Water-Gas Interdependency
DE Natural gas; Compressors; Water pumps; Water resources; Resilience;
   Maintenance engineering; Water; Resilience; service restoration;
   distribution system; water supply system; natural gas supply system;
   interdependency
ID SERVICE RESTORATION; LOAD RESTORATION; POWER; RECONFIGURATION; EXTREME
AB A major outage in the electricity distribution system may affect the operation of water and natural gas supply systems, leading to an interruption of multiple services to critical customers. Therefore, enhancing resilience of critical infrastructures requires joint efforts of multiple sectors. In this paper, a distribution system service restoration method considering the electricity-water-gas interdependency is proposed. The objective is to provide electricity, water, and natural gas supplies to critical customers in the desired ratio according to their needs after an extreme event. The operational constraints of electricity, water, and natural gas networks are considered. The characteristics of electricity-driven coupling components, including water pumps and gas compressors, are also modeled. Relaxation techniques are applied to nonconvex constraints posed by physical laws of those networks. Consequently, the restoration problem is formulated as a mixed-integer second-order cone program, which can readily be solved by the off-the-shelf solvers. The proposed method is validated by numerical simulations on electricity-water-gas integrated systems, developed based on benchmark models of the subsystems. The results indicate that considering the interdependency refines the allocation of limited generation resources and demonstrate the exactness of the proposed convex relaxation.
UT WOS:000709090100023
ER

PT J
AU Zohrabian, A
   Plata, SL
   Kim, DM
   Childress, AE
   Sanders, KT
AF Zohrabian, Angineh
   Plata, Sophia L.
   Kim, Dong Min
   Childress, Amy E.
   Sanders, Kelly T.
TI Leveraging the water-energy nexus to derive benefits for the electric
   grid through demand-side management in the water supply and wastewater
   sectors
DE demand response; flexibility; renewable energy; wastewater treatment;
   water supply
ID TREATMENT PLANTS; PUMPING SYSTEM; INTERMITTENT AERATION; MICRO
   HYDROPOWER; POWER-SYSTEMS; EFFICIENCY; STORAGE; OPTIMIZATION;
   STRATEGIES; INDUSTRIAL
AB Leveraging the potential flexibility of large electrical loads has become an attractive option for maintaining grid reliability, especially in electric grids with high penetrations of variable renewable energy. The water sector is a particularly attractive option for demand-side flexibility due to its vast water storage infrastructure, large interruptible pumping loads, and energy generation opportunities. Shifting the timing of water supply and wastewater utility operations can reduce peak load and temporally align energy-consuming activities with periods of cheap electricity prices and/or high renewable energy generation. This paper presents a general overview of demand-side management strategies in water and wastewater systems, focusing primarily on demand-response measures. We find that while there is consensus in the literature about the potential for water systems to provide flexible demand-side management services, there is a need for developing comprehensive water-energy models to examine the value of load management as a source of revenue for water utilities and as a source of flexibility for the electric grid. More experimental studies and simulation efforts are also needed to address the technical complexities and water quality concerns associated with interrupting water and wastewater utility operations.
   This article is categorized under:
   Engineering Water > Sustainable Engineering of Water
   Engineering Water > Planning Water
UT WOS:000623667400001
ER

PT J
AU Mesa, MVC
   Di Maio, F
   Zio, E
AF Mesa, Maria Valentina Clavijo
   Di Maio, Francesco
   Zio, Enrico
TI Dynamic inoperability input-output modeling of a system of systems made
   of multi-state interdependent critical infrastructures
DE Critical infrastructures; System of systems; Interdependencies; Multiple
   states; Dynamic inoperability input-output model (DIIM); Network theory;
   Simulation; Power grid; Water network
ID RESILIENCE; UNCERTAINTY; RECOVERY; FAILURE; METRICS
AB Critical Infrastructures (CIs) are fundamental for the operation of societies. They function interdependently in a system-of-systems configuration. Interdependencies are unveiled also when CIs become inoperable or only partially operable due to disruptions. The state of partial or full inoperability of a disrupted CI can cascade to the interdependent CIs connected to it in the system of systems, causing various degrees of inoperability. This paper presents a novel approach for modeling the disruption cascade dynamics in multi-state interdependent CIs. A Dynamic Inoperability Input-output Model (DIIM) is proposed to describe the multi-state transition dynamics of the CIs. A case study is worked out to show the application of the proposed approach to a system of systems formed by interdependent power and water networks.
UT WOS:001510091200002
ER

PT J
AU Mooney, EL
   Almoghathawi, Y
   Barker, K
AF Mooney, Elyssa L.
   Almoghathawi, Yasser
   Barker, Kash
TI Facility Location for Recovering Systems of Interdependent Networks
DE Facility location; interdependent infrastructure systems; multiobjective
   optimization; resilience; restoration
ID INFRASTRUCTURE SYSTEMS; RESILIENCE; RESTORATION; METRICS; DESIGN
AB Modern communities heavily depend on critical infrastructure networks, such as power, water, gas, telecommunications, and transportation. These infrastructure networks are often dependent upon each other for operation. The interdependence of infrastructure networks makes them more vulnerable to disruptive events, such as malevolent attacks, natural disasters, and random failures. Since daily life requires the effective operation of these networks, it is important that they are able to withstand or recover quickly from a disruption. To return the networks to some desired level of performance, work crews must be scheduled to restore certain disrupted components (nodes or links). The proposed model is a multiobjective mixed-integer programming formulation that integrates 1) the order of link and node recovery, 2) the scheduling of recovery tasks to work crews, and 3) the location of facilities (or resources), where each work crew should originate from to effectively facilitate the recovery process. This study demonstrates the use of the model through an illustrative example of two interdependent infrastructure networks that exhibit behaviors of electric power and water networks. Considering four disruption scenarios, the example illustrates how recovery may change by varying the number of facilities established for work crews in each network.
UT WOS:000459697700046
ER

PT C
AU Zabasta, A
   Casaliccio, E
   Kunicina, N
   Ribickis, L
AF Zabasta, A.
   Casaliccio, E.
   Kunicina, N.
   Ribickis, L.
GP IEEE
TI A numerical model for evaluation power outages impact on water
   infrastructure services sustainability
DE Estimation technique; Fault tolerance; Modelling; Simulation
AB Critical infrastructure's (CI) (electricity, heat, water, information and communication technology networks) security, stability and reliability are closely related to the interaction phenomenon. Due to the increasing amount of data transferred, increases dependence on telecommunications and internet services, the data integrity and security is becoming a very important aspect for the utility services providers and energy suppliers. In such circumstances, the need is increasing for methods and tools that enable infrastructure managers to evaluate and predict their critical infrastructure operations as the failures, emergency or service degradation occur in other related infrastructures. Using a simulation model, is experimentally tested a method that allows to explore the water supply network nodes the average down time dependence on the battery life time and the battery replacement time cross-correlations, within the parameters set, when outages in power infrastructure arise and taking into account also the impact of telecommunication nodes. The model studies the real case of Latvian city Ventspils. The proposed approach for the analysis of critical infrastructures interdependencies will be useful for practical adoption of methods, models and metrics for CI operators and stakeholders.
UT WOS:000361460000021
ER

PT J
AU Jahromi, HR
   Gitizadeh, M
   Sheikh, M
   Ghasemi, AA
AF Jahromi, Hamzeh Roghanian
   Gitizadeh, Mohsen
   Sheikh, Morteza
   Ghasemi, Ali Akbar
TI A two-stage risk mitigation-aware energy scheduling for integrated
   water-power system with hybrid energy convertors
DE IWPSs; Risk management; Sensitivity function; Proposed Jacobian matrix;
   Energy strategy
ID RELIABILITY ASSESSMENT; HEAT
AB The increasing complexity and interconnectedness of Integrated Water-Power Systems (IWPS) are increasingly becoming riskability against unauthorized intrusions. This complexity requires innovative solutions to ensure system resilience, operational efficiency, and risk mitigation. This paper introduces a novel two-stage approach to managing these intricate IWPSs by integrating sensitivity analysis, risk assessment, and optimization methodologies. In this regard, first the key decision variables are identified by sensitivity analyzing and their impact on the system state variables is evaluated. To evaluate risks, particularly in the context of cyber threats such as False Data Injection Attacks (FDIA), a Proposed Jacobian Matrix (PJM) analysis is then introduced. Additionally, this paper offers a hybrid two-stage structure aimed at enhancing risk management in IWPS drawing on insights from the Proposed Jacobian Matrix (PJM) analysis. To overcome the IWPS's vulnerabilities and enhance optimal performance across operating conditions, the framework employed a multi-layered approach utilizing three key energy converters: water-to-thermal conversion, electricity-to-thermal conversion, and photovoltaic system within IWPS. Meanwhile, the first stage begins to analyze the hybrid structure of energy converters with a focus on risk minimization, specifically aimed at reducing the IWPS's vulnerability to potential disruptions and cyber threats. The second stage is defined based on a cost-effective operational strategy aimed at optimizing the decision variables across the hybrid structure applied in the first stage. The proposed framework is carried out in a studied IWPS with 36 electrical buses, 5 thermal buses, and 5 water buses across an interconnected network. The maximum estimated economic impact is 1.6 x 1013, indicating that the threat from Foreign Data Injection Attacks (FDIA) to the electrical network is the highest, with a risk rating of 3.89. In comparison, the gas network has a risk rating of 3.58, and the water network has a rating of 3.64. Comparative studies show that the PJM technique provides more accurate and consistent risk assessments than Conditional Value-at-Risk (CVaR). Furthermore, the proposed architecture ensures a steady reduction in overall operating expenses while decreasing the Integrated Water and Power Supply (IWPS) risk coefficient from 5.45 to 3.17.
UT WOS:001582861400008
ER

PT J
AU Moglen, RL
   Barth, J
   Gupta, S
   Kawai, E
   Klise, K
   Leibowicz, BD
AF Moglen, Rachel L.
   Barth, Julius
   Gupta, Shagun
   Kawai, Eiji
   Klise, Katherine
   Leibowicz, Benjamin D.
TI A nexus approach to infrastructure resilience planning under uncertainty
DE Infrastructure hardening; Resilience; Stochastic optimization; Disaster
   planning; Critical infrastructure systems; Energy-water nexus
ID POWER-FLOW; SYSTEMS; RESTORATION; FRAMEWORK; RISK; SIMULATION;
   DISASTERS; DECISIONS; NETWORKS; IMPACTS
AB Natural disasters pose serious threats to Critical Infrastructure (CI) systems like power and drinking water, sometimes disrupting service for days, weeks, or months. Decision makers can mitigate this risk by hardening CI systems through actions like burying power lines and installing backup generation for water pumping. However, the inherent uncertainty in natural disasters coupled with the high costs of hardening activities make disaster planning a challenging task. We develop a disaster planning framework that recommends asset -specific hardening projects across interdependent power and water networks facing the uncertainty of natural disasters. We demonstrate the utility of our model by applying it to Guayama, Puerto Rico, focusing on the risk posed by hurricanes. Our results show that our proposed optimization approach identifies hardening decisions that maintain a high level of service post-disaster. The results also emphasize power system hardening due to the dependency of the water system on power for water treatment and a higher vulnerability of the power network to hurricane damage. Finally, choosing optimal hardening decisions by hedging with respect to all potential hurricane scenarios and their probabilities produces results that perform better on extreme events and are less variable compared to optimizing for only the average hurricane scenario.
UT WOS:000891282800001
ER

PT J
AU Santhosh, A
   Farid, AM
   Youcef-Toumi, K
AF Santhosh, Apoorva
   Farid, Amro M.
   Youcef-Toumi, Kamal
TI Real-time economic dispatch for the supply side of the energy-water
   nexus
DE Energy-water nexus; Electricity market; Smart power grid; Smart water
   grid; Water distribution; Energy management
ID UNIT COMMITMENT; COGENERATION PLANTS; POWER; OPTIMIZATION; GENERATION;
   DESALINATION; UNCERTAINTY; CHALLENGES; OPERATION; SYSTEMS
AB Clean energy and water are two essential resources that any society must securely deliver. Their usage raises sustainability issues and questions of nations' resilience in face of global changes and mega-trends such as population growth, global climate change, and economic growth. Traditionally, the infrastructure systems that deliver these precious commodities, the water distribution and power transmission networks are thought of as separate, uncoupled systems. However, in reality, they are very much coupled in what is commonly known as the energy-water nexus. Although this subject has recently caught the attention of numerous policy and regulatory agencies, rarely is it holistically addressed in terms of an integrated engineering system for its management, planning, and regulation as an interdisciplinary concern. This work specifically fills this gap by addressing the supply side of this integrated engineering system. Specifically, it develops the multi-plant real-time simultaneous economic dispatch of power and water. While significant background literature has addressed traditional power dispatch, and the emerging co-dispatch of power and heat, as of now there does not exist a parameterized model for the optimized dispatch of power and water for multiple power, water, and coproduction facilities. The work presents such a model where production costs are minimized subject to capacity, demand and process constraints. It is demonstrated on an illustrative example of modest size. Interesting results were observed suggesting that the coproduction minimum capacity limits and process constraints can lead to scenarios where cheaper single product plants can be crowded out of the dispatch. The program provides a systematic method of achieving optimal results and can serve as a basis for set-points upon which individual plants can implement their optimal control. In so doing, it makes a supply-side contribution to the ongoing grand-challenge of improving the sustainability of the energy-water nexus. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000335273100006
ER

PT J
AU Oikonomou, K
   Parvania, M
AF Oikonomou, Konstantinos
   Parvania, Masood
TI Optimal Coordinated Operation of Interdependent Power and Water
   Distribution Systems
DE Desalination; Reservoirs; Wastewater; Power demand; Power distribution;
   Reliability; Optimization; Interdependent critical infrastructure;
   flexibility; power-water nexus; distribution systems; optimization
ID DEMAND RESPONSE; SIDE
AB With the rising electricity demand for freshwater production, power and water sectors are becoming increasingly interdependent. This vital link could create new opportunities for power and water distribution system operators to coordinate the operation of their systems and achieve operational cost and energy efficiency benefits. This paper proposes the flexible power-water flow (FlexPWF) model for co-optimizing the operation of flexible energy-intensive components in water systems with the operation of both power and water distribution systems. The FlexPWF model leverages the energy flexibility provided by water treatment and desalination plants in conjunction with variable speed pumps and water storage tanks to minimize the operating costs of interdependent power and water distribution systems. The proposed model takes into account the operational constraints of both power and water distribution systems, thus coordinating their operation without endangering the reliable supply of power and water to customers. The paper highlights the merits of integrating water treatment and desalination plants, where a detailed model is proposed to capture their dynamic operation for producing variable amounts of freshwater and providing energy flexibility. Simulations, conducted on the 33-bus test distribution system and a 15-node test water distribution system, show that the FlexPWF model effectively coordinates the operation, reduces the operating costs and improves the operational metrics of both power and water systems.
UT WOS:000583560800018
ER

PT J
AU Khatavkar, P
   Mays, LW
AF Khatavkar, Puneet
   Mays, Larry W.
TI Resilience of Water Distribution Systems during Real-Time Operations
   under Limited Water and/or Energy Availability Conditions
DE Resilience; Water distribution systems; Water energy nexus; Real-time
   operations; Optimization; Simulation
ID SUSTAINABILITY; FRAMEWORK; ENHANCE
AB A methodology for determining system operation resilience is presented for the real-time operation of water distribution systems (WDS) under critical conditions of limited water or electrical energy resulting from extreme drought or electric grid failure. Resilience for water distribution systems is defined as how quickly the WDS recovers or bounces back from emergency to normal operations. The algorithm for operational resilience was interfaced with an optimization-simulation model for the real-time optimal operation of water distribution systems. The resilience methodology considered both demand and water quality requirements of both the municipal WDS and the power plant cooling systems. The optimization-simulation modeling approach interfaced a genetic algorithm optimization procedure with the WDS hydraulic and water quality simulator (EPANET) in the framework of an optimal control problem. The interfacing of the genetic algorithm in MATLAB and the EPANET model was implemented using a MATLAB-EPANET toolkit. An example WDS including two cities, five power plants, and reclaimed water from a wastewater treatment plant was used to demonstrate the application of system operation resilience concepts to assess the performance. The resilience computation methodology presented in this study is applicable to both short-term and long-term failures of WDS. For the purposes of this study, the methodology was applied to three scenarios of short-term (2-6 h) power outages for the example WDS. A sensitivity analysis was performed for resilience of example WDSs under varying degrees of long-term system-level power and water shortages. Applications of the methodology are used to illustrate improved operation resilience of the system.
UT WOS:000481518300001
ER

PT J
AU Balakrishnan, S
   Cassottana, B
AF Balakrishnan, Srijith
   Cassottana, Beatrice
TI InfraRisk: An open-source simulation platform for resilience analysis in
   interconnected power-water-transport networks
DE Infrastructure simulation; Sequential simulation; Disaster resilience;
   Infrastructure asset management; Hazard analysis
ID INTERDEPENDENT CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE; MODEL; VULNERABILITY; FRAMEWORK;
   SYSTEMS
AB Integrated simulation models are emerging as an alternative for analyzing large-scale interdependent infras-tructure networks due to their modeling advantages over traditional interdependency models. This paper presents an open-source integrated simulation package for the component-level analysis of interdependent power-, water-, transport networks. The simulation platform, named 'InfraRisk' and developed in Python, can simulate network-wide effects of disaster-induced infrastructure failures and subsequent post-disaster restoration. InfraRisk consists of an infrastructure module, a hazard module, a recovery module, a simulation module, and a resilience quantification module. The infrastructure module integrates existing infrastructure network packages (wntr for water distribution systems, pandapower for power systems, and a static traffic assignment model for road transport systems) through an interface that facilitates the network-level simulation of infrastructure failures. The hazard module generates infrastructure component failures based on various disaster characteristics. The recovery module determines repair sequences and assigns repair crews based on predefined heuristics-based recovery strategies or model predictive control (MPC) based optimization. Based on the schedule, the simulation module simulates the consequences of the disaster impacts and the recovery actions on the performance of the interdependent network. The resilience quantification module offers system-level and consumer-level metrics to quantify both the risks and resilience of the integrated infrastructure networks against disaster events. InfraRisk provides a virtual platform for decision-makers to experiment and develop region-specific pre-disaster and post-disaster policies to enhance the overall resilience of interdependent urban infrastructure networks.
UT WOS:000822564900001
ER

PT J
AU Tao, YX
   Xu, ZD
   Liu, XY
   Wei, YX
   Peng, HY
AF Tao, Yuxuan
   Xu, Zhao-Dong
   Liu, Xin-Yu
   Wei, Yaxin
   Peng, Haoyan
TI Uncertainty analysis and resilience enhancement for post-earthquake fire
   emergency response considering cascading effects of interdependent
   infrastructures
DE Infrastructure interdependency; Cascading failures; Urban community;
   Disaster resilience; Emergency rescue; Decision making
ID EARTHQUAKE; ACCESSIBILITY; FRAMEWORK; SERVICES; DISASTER; SYSTEMS;
   DAMAGE
AB Resilient cities require effective prioritization of critical infrastructures under budget and resource constraints to minimize environmental, economic, and social impacts of disasters. This study develops a methodology to evaluate physical and functional interdependencies and cascading effects among infrastructures, including building clusters, transportation, water supply, power, and communication systems. The methodology integrates deep learning-driven building damage assessment, agent-based path planning, hydraulic analysis, and probabilistic modeling for debris distribution, ignition, road damage, and pipeline failure, as well as physics-tofunction mapping for power and communication systems. Monte Carlo simulations are employed to quantify the impacts of dynamic and uncertain environments induced by cascading failures on firefighting responses. Furthermore, a management perspective spanning time, space, economy, social psychology, and recovery efficiency is developed to support urban resilience enhancement and emergency response decision-making. Findings indicate that pre-earthquake strategies should focus on cost-effective reinforcement of key components such as communication base stations and substations, improved fire station layout, and enhanced public evacuation training. As earthquake moment magnitude increases from 7.5 to 8.0, urban firefighting emergency response system failure shifts from resource limitations to cascading system collapse. Post-earthquake response should follow a time-prioritized and rapid recovery approach. For strong earthquakes, emphasis should be placed on power system bypass restoration and maintaining water supply, whereas for great earthquakes, priority should shift toward emergency communication substitution and large-scale road clearance.
UT WOS:001863585000001
ER

PT C
AU Knudtson, J
   Mathieu, JL
AF Knudtson, Jenna
   Mathieu, Johanna L.
GP IEEE
TI Topological Models Underestimate the Impact of Hazards on Coupled Power
   and Water Distribution Systems
DE Hazard modeling; simulation; vulnerability analysis; power flow; power
   quality; resilience
ID RESILIENCE; RISK
AB As the number and severity of low-probability, high-impact weather events increases due to climate change, accurate models are needed to better understand the impact of hazards on critical infrastructure. Many critical systems, such as water and telecommunications, are dependent on the power network. At the distribution level, water and power systems are coupled in that water pumps are driven by three-phase induction motors. These motors require certain levels of power quality; however, hazard simulation literature does not accurately model power flow in distribution systems, opting for topological models to decrease computational burden and data collection. In this paper, we explore several case studies on a test system to show how including power flow both changes and adds to our understanding of distribution system vulnerability. We find that topological models underestimate pump failure in over 50% of single line outage cases. In addition, power flow models can be used to show the impact of other hazard events and failures, such as high impedance faults, voltage regulation failure, and secondary outages. On our test system, almost 50% of single high impedance fault cases result in pump failures. Our results show that topological models can underestimate pump failures, and therefore system vulnerability, in coupled power and water distribution systems.
UT WOS:001423279900052
ER

PT J
AU Najafi, J
   Peiravi, A
   Guerrero, JM
AF Najafi, Javad
   Peiravi, Ali
   Guerrero, Josep. M.
TI Power distribution system improvement planning under hurricanes based on
   a new resilience index
DE Distribution system planning; Natural disasters; Power system
   restoration; Resilience; Water network
ID RESTORATION; EXTREME; MICROGRIDS
AB Natural disasters such as hurricanes damage power distribution systems by low probability-high impact events. Other infrastructures such as water networks will be disrupted due to their dependency on the power network. In this situation, a city or region experiences critical conditions. In this paper, a new resilience index based on social welfare concept is presented to decrease unserved loads, restore the distribution system rapidly and decrease the dependency of water network operation to power network failures. The new resilience index is optimized with effective strategies including: upgrading distribution poles, DG placement with different capacities and distribution system automation. The problem is formulated as a stochastic two-stage optimization. The first-stage decisions are the number of each resilience improvement strategy limited to a predetermined budget. Genetic algorithm is applied to solve the first stage. The objective of the second stage is maximizing the social welfare which is solved by an innovative approach. Numerical simulations are performed on the IEEE 33-bus radial distribution system and designed water network related to it. The results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method.
UT WOS:000433169800053
ER

PT J
AU Yang, YS
   Li, ZM
   Xu, Y
   Xiao, GX
   Lo, EY
   Wang, P
AF Yang, Yesen
   Li, Zhengmao
   Xu, Yan
   Xiao, Gaoxi
   Lo, Edmond Y.
   Wang, Peng
TI Co-optimized recovery framework for damaged coupled power-water systems
   with temporal-spatial coordination and MT-SOPs
DE Coupled power-water systems; Co-optimization; Recovery; Reconfiguration;
   Uncertainties modeling
ID NETWORK
AB The resilience of modern coupled power-water (CPW) systems is challenged by various disruptions and risks. While the restoration and repair of individual systems are documented in the literature, their coordination in CPW recovery is rarely focused on. This work proposes a temporal-spatial coordinative method to improve CPW resilience by co-optimizing the recovery process comprising repair crew dispatch and adaptive service restoration. Firstly, a CPW model is developed based on physical mechanisms and component-level interdependencies. The model includes typical post-disruption features, like imbalanced three-phase power flows and pipe breakages. Secondly, a coordinated framework is designed for recovering damaged CPW, considering faulted components, available crew, and resources. The framework hierarchically comprises two stages. The first stage conducts absorption via components' operation and network topology adjustment. The second stage organizes the grouping and routing of repair crews, with further adjustments of absorption to exploit newly repaired components. In addition, multi-terminal soft open points (MT-SOPs) are applied to facilitate flexible power flow control and network reconfiguration of imbalanced power networks to augment the repair process. We also modeled the diverse correlated uncertainties and applied a sample-based optimization approach for timely and robust solutions. The proposed method is validated on a modified 36-node/33-bus CPW system, demonstrating a 32.51 % reduction in unsupplied loads compared to separate recovery. Additionally, incorporating MT-SOPs further reduces unsupplied loads by 16.94 % compared to traditional tie-lines. A large-scale evaluation on a 308-node/150-bus synthetic model further confirms the effectiveness of our framework in real-world CPW systems.
UT WOS:001578824700001
ER

PT J
AU Li, XY
   Wu, ZY
   Yang, L
   Sun, MY
   Zhao, X
AF Li, Xinyi
   Wu, Zhenyu
   Yang, Lun
   Sun, Mingyi
   Zhao, Xia
TI A convex-relaxation based method for optimal water-power flow
DE Water network; Optimal water-power flow; SOC relaxation; Convex
   envelope; Sequential convexification
ID ENERGY NEXUS
AB This paper proposes a convex reformulation for the non-linear optimal water-power flow (OWPF) problem to optimize the operation cost of the integrated electricity-water network (IEWN). Due to the significant challenge in seeking the optimal solution of non-convex problems, the original OWPF problem is reformulated as a tractable mixed-integer second-order cone programming (MISOCP) problem. For the power distribution network, a second-order cone (SOC) relaxation is employed to address the non-linear branch power flow equation. For the water distribution network, a big-M trick is introduced to handle the unknown direction of water flow, then SOC relaxations and convex envelopes are employed to deal with quadratic and bilinear terms in non-convex constraints, respectively. To enhance the approximation accuracy of the proposed MISOCP model, a convex combination method and a sequential convexification approach are developed. Numerical results demonstrate that the proposed method outperforms the original non-linear formulation and linearized reformulation in accuracy, efficiency, and robustness. (C) 2022 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.
UT WOS:000865597700056
ER

PT C
AU Khatavkar, P
   Mays, LW
AF Khatavkar, Puneet
   Mays, Larry W.
BE Kamojjala, S
TI Resilience Computations for Optimal Operation of Water Distribution
   Systems
DE Resilience; sustainability; water distribution system; water energy
   nexus; real-time operations; optimization; simulation; water
   distribution system operations; smart cities
ID SUSTAINABILITY ASSESSMENT
AB A methodology for computation of system resilience for the real-time operation of water distribution systems (WDS) under critical conditions of limited water and limited electrical energy is presented. Critical emergencies in WDS operations can result from extreme drought, electric grid failure, and other severe natural conditions. The basic objective of this study is to apply the concepts of system resilience within an optimization-simulation model for real-time optimal operation of water distribution systems under conditions of limited water and energy availability. The modeling approach interfaces a genetic algorithm optimization procedure with the WDS hydraulic simulator (EPANET) in the framework of an optimal control problem. The methodology is implemented within the framework of MATLAB. An example WDS is used to demonstrate the application of the resilience concepts to assess the performance.
UT WOS:000437016600038
ER

PT J
AU Brunner, LG
   Skipper, D
   Logan, TM
AF Brunner, Logan G.
   Skipper, Daphne
   Logan, Tom M.
TI Estimating whole-of-event consequences in interdependent infrastructure
   systems
DE Time-dependent risk assessment; Whole-of-event consequences; Systemic
   risk; Community resilience; Interdependent infrastructure systems;
   Cascading failures; Recovery modeling
ID BAYESIAN NETWORK; RESILIENCE; RESTORATION; POWER; RECOVERY; FRAMEWORK;
   MODEL
AB Conventional risk assessments underestimate the total burden of hazards by characterizing consequences at or near the point of disruption, rather than as processes that unfold over time. This paper addresses that limitation by introducing a method to estimate whole-of-event consequences in interdependent infrastructure systems, integrating cascading failures and recovery dynamics into time-dependent risk metrics. We develop a modeling framework that generates trajectories of service disruption and restoration across electricity, water, and wastewater networks, and quantify community-level consequences using metrics such as property-days without service, outage duration thresholds, and spatial disparities in recovery. Applied to a coastal flooding case study, the results show that recovery-informed estimates differ substantially from exposure-based and static cascading approaches, revealing both greater total impacts and different spatial distributions of disruption. These findings demonstrate that a substantial portion of risk arises from the accumulation of disruption during recovery, which is not captured in conventional assessments. Whole-of-event consequences therefore provide a more appropriate basis for understanding systemic risk and for informing infrastructure investment, adaptation planning, and risk prioritization. By operationalizing consequence as a time-dependent, system-wide process, this work advances risk assessment practice and supports more accurate and equitable decision-making in interdependent infrastructure systems.
UT WOS:001790717800001
ER

PT J
AU Jian, PR
   Guo, Q
   Nojavan, S
AF Jian, Peiru
   Guo, Qun
   Nojavan, Sayyad
TI Risk-averse operation of energy-water nexus using information gap
   decision theory
DE Power-water nexus system; Water, and power demand uncertainty;
   Risk-averse; Risk-neutral; Information gap decision theory
ID COMBINED SYSTEM; POWER; FOOD; OPTIMIZATION; UNCERTAINTY; PERFORMANCE;
   DEMAND
AB Nowadays, nexus systems spread in modern societies because of their ability in incorporation of the dependencies of the interconnected resources water and energy. Other parameters such as cost-effectiveness, environmental issues can be considered as the advantages of the mentioned system. Besides the mentioned positive features, the most significant barrier, the uncertainty of the demand energy, still needs to be taken into account. So, information gap decision theory (IGDT) is applied to the proposed nexus system to analyze the water and power demand uncertainties levels. GAMS software is used to solve the proposed risk-based model. In the proposed IGDT method, risk-averse and risk-neutral strategies are applied to the proposed nexus system, and the obtained results are analyzed with each other. Obtained results indicate the robustness of studied system under uncertainties of water and power demands. For instance, alpha = 5.7%, total robustness cost of the studied nexus system is increased by approximately $250. (C) 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000720474900002
ER

PT J
AU Wang, K
   Xu, ZP
   Liu, Y
   Fang, YP
AF Wang, Kai
   Xu, Zhaoping
   Liu, Yu
   Fang, Yiping
TI Resilience Enhancement for Multistate Interdependent Infrastructure
   Networks: From a Preparedness Perspective
DE Resilience; Planning; Programming; Uncertainty; Stochastic processes;
   Optimization; Hazards; Interdependent infrastructure networks;
   multistate network; resilience; two-stage stochastic programming;
   vulnerability
ID ROBUST OPTIMIZATION; SCENARIO REDUCTION; SYSTEMS; FRAMEWORK;
   RELIABILITY; DESIGN; RISK; RESTORATION; STRATEGIES; ALLOCATION
AB Reducing vulnerability and enhancing resilience of infrastructure networks subject to uncertain disruptions is a challenging task as these networks become increasingly interconnected and interdependent. This article devotes to addressing the preparedness planning problem of interdependent infrastructure networks. The interdependency between infrastructure networks is characterized by a two-way physical interdependency, that is, the state of one infrastructure network is dependent on that of another infrastructure network, and vice versa. Furthermore, the multistate characteristics of infrastructure networks are taken into account and accommodated to the studied physical interdependency. A tailored two-stage stochastic programming framework, which is able to cope with the uncertainty associated with disruption scenarios, is put forth to facilitate an effective resilience enhancement strategy under a limited budget. In this framework, the first-stage problem selects the optimal protection levels of network components in advance, whereas the second-stage problem optimizes the network operation after a disruption scenario occurs. The proposed framework is implemented to an illustrative system composed of interdependent power-water distribution networks to demonstrate the effectiveness of the resilience enhancement strategy.
UT WOS:000757873700001
ER

PT J
AU Almoghathawi, Y
   Barker, K
AF Almoghathawi, Yasser
   Barker, Kash
TI Component importance measures for interdependent infrastructure network
   resilience
DE Importance measures; Interdependent networks; Recoverability;
   Resilience; Vulnerability
ID VULNERABILITY ANALYSIS; STOCHASTIC-MEASURES; SEISMIC RESILIENCE; FLOW
   MODEL; SYSTEMS; RESTORATION; IDENTIFICATION; DESIGN; FAILURE; IMPACTS
AB Critical infrastructure networks such as transportation, telecommunications, electric power, natural gas and oil, and water distribution rely on one another for their proper functionality. Hence, they are increasingly interdependent, making them highly vulnerable, where the occurrence of even a small disruption in one infrastructure network could propagate to affect other dependent infrastructure networks leading to a more significant adverse impact on society. Therefore, a key aspect of preparedness planning in infrastructure networks is identifying the critical network components that influence not only (i) the performance of their networks the most when disrupted and restored but also (ii) the performance of other networks due to their interdependent nature. This work offers a means to study the importance of interdependent network components with a resilience-focused performance measure in mind. We propose two component importance measures, (i) the first of which quantifies the effect of disrupted components on the resilience of the interdependent infrastructure networks once they are recovered, while (ii) the second measures the potential impact on the resilience of the interdependent infrastructure networks caused by a specific disrupted network element. The proposed measures are illustrated through generated interdependent power-water networks and compared with two other common network centrality measures. The use of such measures could identify components that are candidates for the allocation of resources to reduce their vulnerability or to expedite their recovery.
UT WOS:000472691300014
ER

PT J
AU Chen, YD
   Li, LZ
   Li, WJ
   Yuan, JF
   Ji, WY
AF Chen, Yudi
   Li, Lingzhi
   Li, Wenjie
   Yuan, Jingfeng
   Ji, Wenying
TI Toward Community-Centered Planning of Infrastructure Restorations by
   Integrating Community Demographics and Public Facilities
DE Infrastructure resilience; Social vulnerability; Optimization model
ID NETWORK DESIGN; SYSTEMS; RESILIENCE; FRAMEWORK
AB Critical lifeline infrastructures are increasingly facing disruptions from natural and human-made disasters. To reduce disaster impacts on communities, there is a paradigm shift toward community-centered planning of infrastructure restorations. Existing studies often conduct community-centered planning by incorporating community demographics, such as population and social vulnerability, but fail to include public facilities (e.g., hospitals and police stations) that also play a critical role in community functioning. This study seeks to bridge this gap by integrating a full set of community factors, including not just those related to humans, but also those concerning public facilities. Such an information integration perspective is applied to determine the restoration priority of damaged infrastructure components. Then, a priority-integrated optimization model is built for allocating restoration resources efficiently. For illustration purposes, the study examines the restorations of interdependent infrastructure systems, i.e., power and water infrastructures, in Shelby County, US. The results indicate that, compared to the approaches that ignore public facilities, the proposed approach significantly facilitates the restoration of infrastructure nodes serving critical public facilities (e.g., hospitals) without increasing the overall restoration duration. Theoretically, this presented study emphasizes the necessity of including a full set of community factors to achieve community-centered planning of infrastructure restorations. Methodologically, it offers a structured approach that simplifies the transition from integrating various community factors to scheduling infrastructure restoration resources. Practically, this study's approach aligns closely with existing procedures in utility companies, making it more readily adaptable for them.
UT WOS:001446364600012
ER

PT J
AU Liu, XO
AF Liu, Xiaoou
TI Research on collaborative scheduling of internet data center and
   regional integrated energy system based on electricity-heat-water
   coupling
DE Internet data center; Integrated energy system; Water-energy nexus;
   Demand response; Flexible substation
AB Aiming at the carbon peaking and carbon neutrality goals, the water resource and energy management of internet data center involves many aspects, including the interaction among internet data center, power grid, water network and heat consumer. As an important demand response resource for the power grid, the interaction between both can improve the flexibility of the power grid, and ensure the power supply reliability and operation economy of internet data center. Existing references assume that regional integrated energy system can obtain all data information and scheduling permissions of internet data center, ignore the autonomous decision-making ability of both, resulting in its application has some constraints. The operation pattern switchover of internet data center and data allocation among multiple internet data center s are ignored, it is not possible to fully play the flexibility characteristics of internet data center. The study of interaction between internet data center and power grid simplifies the power grid as an ideal power source, ignoring its operational constraints. Internet data center configured with renewable energy, electric energy storage device and water-cooling system is taken as one of the research objects in this paper, and regional integrated energy system formed by the coupling of distribution network and water network as the other. The water-energy coupling and cooperative operation between above two are studied for solving the above problem. The proposed method has been validated in the demonstration project of the "East Data and West Computing" big data industrial park in Qingyang, Gansu, China. The results of example show that water-energy demand response and waste heat reuse can help to reduce the operational cost of internet data center, improve scheduling flexibility of regional integrated energy system, and enhance the capacity of renewable energy utilization. The operational cost of internet data center and regional integrated energy system is sensitive to emergency capacity of electric energy storage device, cost coefficient of the power demand response of electric energy storage device and water demand response of reservoir, data load flexible scheduling strategy, which is consistent with the operational status of the demonstration project.
UT WOS:001178680500001
ER

PT J
AU Almoghathawi, Y
AF Almoghathawi, Yasser
TI Optimal resilience-based restoration plan for disrupted interdependent
   infrastructure networks under uncertainty
DE Interdependent networks; Restoration; Resilience; Facility location;
   Routing; Optimization
ID DESIGN; LOCATION
AB The functioning of vital services in a society depends heavily on the proper and continuous operation of critical infrastructure networks, including water, transportation, power, natural gas, and telecommunication. Such networks are essential for maintaining the economy, security, and overall quality of life. However, since these critical networks are interdependent; hence, they are susceptible to various types of disruptions caused by natural disasters, failures, or malicious activities, leading to varying degrees of performance impacts that could directly affect people's daily lives. Thus, a disruption to one network can quickly spread to others, resulting in significant impacts on daily life. Therefore, restoring such disrupted networks in a timely manner is crucial to ensure a prompt recovery and minimize the impact on daily life. In this work, we consider the problem of restoring a set of interdependent infrastructure networks following a disruptive event. We study two essential factors that can accelerate the recovery process: (i) the restoration facilities location, which are considered as dispatching points for restoration crews, and (ii) the routes of the restoration crews within the interdependent networks. Accordingly, we formulate two optimization models using mixed integer programming. The first model, restoration facility location model, finds the optimal location for restoration facilities within interdependent infrastructure networks considering uncertainty in disruptions. The second model, restoration crew routing model, determine the optimal routes for restoration crews within the interdependent infrastructure networks considering: (i) travelled distance, (ii) restoration time required for disrupted network components, and (iii) different importance of network components. The two optimization models are solved through generated interdependent power and water networks to demonstrate their effectiveness.
UT WOS:001641490600001
ER

PT J
AU Alnakhli, A
   Dehghanian, P
   Alhazmi, M
AF Alnakhli, Ahmad
   Dehghanian, Payman
   Alhazmi, Mohannad
TI Coordinated Energy Scheduling in Interconnected Power-Water-Gas Networks
   Under Network Failures
DE Natural gas; Costs; Pipelines; Power systems; Electricity; Resilience;
   Hydraulic systems; Contingency management; Transmission line matrix
   methods; Power transmission lines; Contingency analysis; electric power
   system; water system; natural gas system; interdependency
ID DISTRIBUTION-SYSTEM; ELECTRICITY
AB The rapid growth of interconnections between different energy systems has seen emerging developments in recent years. Electric Power System (EPS), Water System (WS), and Natural Gas System (NGS) have been traditionally operated independently. However, a multi-sectoral approach is needed to enhance the resilience of critical infrastructure systems and reap the economic benefits. This becomes crucial as natural disasters with massive power outages have increased in both frequency and magnitude. To address these challenges, this paper proposes a cooperative joint framework for the operation of the Power, Water, and Gas Networks (PWGNs) during emergency operating conditions. The proposed formulation takes into account the nonlinear nature of both the hydraulic constraints in WS and the gas flow in the NGS. To reduce the computational burden of the original problem, linearization techniques are employed to convert the nonlinear model into a Mixed-Integer Linear Programming (MILP) formulation. Case studies with different contingency scenarios are analyzed in the IEEE 24-bus and IEEE 118-bus test systems, which are jointly operated with a 12-node and 20-node NGS, and a 15-node commercial-scale WS. Numerical results demonstrate that the proposed model effectively enhances the resilience of the interconnected energy systems and reduces the overall operational costs during emergency conditions. Additionally, results show that the proposed joint operation model provides significant energy flexibility and is efficiently scalable to large networks.
UT WOS:001523487600036
ER

PT J
AU Gomez, C
   González, AD
   Baroud, H
   Bedoya-Motta, CD
AF Gomez, Camilo
   Gonzalez, Andres D.
   Baroud, Hiba
   Bedoya-Motta, Claudia D.
TI Integrating Operational and Organizational Aspects in Interdependent
   Infrastructure Network Recovery
DE Infrastructure resilience; optimization; sociotechnical systems
ID DECISION-MAKING; OR/MS RESEARCH; SYSTEMS; RESTORATION; MANAGEMENT;
   SIMULATION; DESIGN; MODEL
AB Managing risk in infrastructure systems implies dealing with interdependent physical networks and their relationships with the natural and societal contexts. Computational tools are often used to support operational decisions aimed at improving resilience, whereas economics-related tools tend to be used to address broader societal and policy issues in infrastructure management. We propose an optimization-based framework for infrastructure resilience analysis that incorporates organizational and socioeconomic aspects into operational problems, allowing to understand relationships between decisions at the policy level (e.g., regulation) and the technical level (e.g., optimal infrastructure restoration). We focus on three issues that arise when integrating such levels. First, optimal restoration strategies driven by financial and operational factors evolve differently compared to those driven by socioeconomic and humanitarian factors. Second, regulatory aspects have a significant impact on recovery dynamics (e.g., effective recovery is most challenging in societies with weak institutions and regulation, where individual interests may compromise societal well-being). And third, the decision space (i.e., available actions) in postdisaster phases is strongly determined by predisaster decisions (e.g., resource allocation). The proposed optimization framework addresses these issues by using: (1) parametric analyses to test the influence of operational and socioeconomic factors on optimization outcomes, (2) regulatory constraints to model and assess the cost and benefit (for a variety of actors) of enforcing specific policy-related conditions for the recovery process, and (3) sensitivity analyses to capture the effect of predisaster decisions on recovery. We illustrate our methodology with an example regarding the recovery of interdependent water, power, and gas networks in Shelby County, TN (USA), with exposure to natural hazards.
UT WOS:000484531200005
ER

PT C
AU Zhang, YF
   Xu, LX
   Gao, MY
   Cai, PX
   Dcng, C
   Zhang, XL
AF Zhang, Yunfeng
   Xu, Lixiong
   Gao, Mingyu
   Cai, Peixin
   Dcng, Chuang
   Zhang, Xiaoling
GP IEEE
TI Lrban Power Grid Resilience Assessment Method Considering Urban Lifeline
   Function
DE power grid resilience; urban lifeline; earthquake disaster; urban power
   grid
ID FRAMEWORK; SYSTEMS
AB The occurrence probability of extreme disasters such as earthquakes is very low, but when they do occur, they pose significant risks to the stable and reliable operation of power systems. During the Wenchuan Earthquake in China on May 12, 2008, with a magnitude of 8.0, the power grid experienced a load loss exceeding 4 million kW, leaving at least 2.46 million users without electricity, resulting in enormous economic losses and severe social impacts. As a crucial energy provider in urban systems, the power grid plays a key supporting role in the operation of urban lifeline systems. Therefore, resilience assessment of urban power grids should not be limited to power restoration but should comprehensively consider the recovery of functional demands across urban lifeline systems. This study establishes a coupled system of water, electricity, and gas networks as urban lifelines and proposes urban power grid resilience assessment metrics based on the functional demands of urban lifeline systems. These metrics take into account the needs of different types of users for water, electricity, and gas resources under conditions where main grid power supply is constrained by earthquake disasters, focusing on voltage levels ranging from 10 kV to 220 kV.
UT WOS:001492764600028
ER

PT J
AU Tajik, N
   Barker, K
   González, AD
   Ermagun, A
AF Tajik, Nazanin
   Barker, Kash
   Gonzalez, Andres D.
   Ermagun, Alireza
TI A heuristic approach to an interdependent restoration planning and crew
   routing problem
DE Restoration planning; Vehicle routing problem; Interdependent
   infrastructure networks; Local search; Heuristic; Network resilience
ID INTEGRATED NETWORK DESIGN; SUPPLY CHAIN; REPAIR CREW; RESILIENCE;
   RECOVERY; METRICS; MODEL
AB This study proposes efficient solution methods to solve interdependent restoration planning and crew routing problems. The solutions provide reliable restoration plans regardless of the size and structure of disrupted infrastructure networks. We propose a relaxed mixed integer linear programming (MILP) model and two heuristic algorithms to find efficient feasible initial solutions for the restoration routing problem. We also propose a local search heuristic algorithm to find a near-optimal solution using the results obtained from the proposed model. Using electric power, water, and gas infrastructure network instances from Shelby County, TN, the computational results corroborate the efficacy of the mathematical formulation and shows that the heuristic algorithm obtains optimal or near-optimal solutions. In particular, we apply the sequence of the relaxed model, initial solution algorithm, and the local search algorithm for 62 scenarios with different magnitudes of disruption and different numbers of restoration crews. Analyzing the performance of the local search algorithm, we confirm the advantages of using the initial solution algorithm in producing the restoration schedules with reliable and relatively low total restoration time, particularly for large size problems. The observations also reveal how the scattering intensity in the distribution of disrupted locations affects the performance of relaxed models, and consequently, the integrated heuristic.
UT WOS:000707150300015
ER

PT C
AU Zuloaga, S
   Vittal, V
AF Zuloaga, Scott
   Vittal, Vijay
GP IEEE
TI Metrics for Use in Quantifying Power System Resilience with Water-Energy
   Nexus Considerations: Mathematical Formulation and Case Study
DE Critical Interdependent Infrastructures; Electric Power System; Extended
   Period Time-Domain Simulations; System Resilience; Water Distribution
   System; Water-Energy Nexus
AB The electric power system and the water distribution systems (WDS) have several interdependencies which have been recognized and which comprise what is informally referred to as the water-energy nexus. The need to adequately model and study these two systems and their interactions is becoming critically important due to the likelihood of load increases in both systems or due to unforeseen events. From previous studies, it is known that the power system is quite resilient under normal operating conditions as well as under small disturbances due to robust design and planning procedures. However, long-term droughts or wide spread power outages can have a severe effect and are part of a set of high impact, low probability events which need to be studied, understood and if possible, quantified. This paper presents novel performance metrics to aid in assessing the resilience of the power system when subjected to such rare, extreme conditions. The metrics proposed here are based on quantities that are relevant to the power system exclusively as well as on parameters pertaining to its operation in conjunction with the water distribution system. The resilience measures of performance are calculated using appropriate metrics which can be obtained from long-term, time-domain simulations.
UT WOS:001250142702113
ER

PT J
AU Perelman, G
   Housh, M
   Navon, A
   Ostfeld, A
AF Perelman, Gal
   Housh, Mashor
   Navon, Aviad
   Ostfeld, Avi
TI Integrated optimal operation of power and water systems under
   uncertainty: An adjustable robust optimization approach
DE Adjustable robust optimization; Real-time; Data-driven; Integrated
   systems; Uncertain equality constraints
ID FLOW
AB Water and power systems are deeply interdependent, yet they are typically analyzed and optimized separately. Coupling these systems leverages their mutual dependency to enhance overall efficiency and reliability, although it introduces significant modeling complexity, especially when considering the inherent uncertainty in these systems, such as water demands, power loads, and renewable generation. This study proposes Robust Optimization (RO) and adjustable robust optimization (ARO) for the integrated day-ahead scheduling of pump operations and generator dispatch under uncertainty. A novel formulation is introduced to systematically eliminate uncertain equality constraints, which hinders the direct implementation of RO and ARO models. This is done by decomposing the decision vector into dependent and independent variables and substituting the dependent variables to eliminate the equality constraints. A key advantage of the ARO framework is its ability to incorporate real-time information as uncertainty unfolds, enabling adaptive decision-making. By coupling the two systems, the model allows each system to adjust its operation not only based on internal measurements but also in response to the evolving state of the other system. Two case studies demonstrate the method's performance through a Pareto tradeoff between cost optimality and robustness. The results show that robustness can be dramatically improved, compared to deterministic optimization, increasing the constraint satisfaction rates from less than 25% to above 99% with an increase of only 2-5% in operational costs. The results also highlight the superiority of ARO over RO in achieving lower operational costs for comparable levels of robustness. These findings showcase the potential of the proposed method to generate robust, adaptive policies that support the advancement of sustainable and reliable operation of interdependent infrastructure systems.
UT WOS:001664964400001
ER

PT J
AU Nasrazadani, H
   Mahsuli, M
AF Nasrazadani, Hossein
   Mahsuli, Mojtaba
TI Probabilistic Framework for Evaluating Community Resilience: Integration
   of Risk Models and Agent-Based Simulation
DE Community resilience; Risk analysis; Recovery analysis; Agent-based
   simulation; Infrastructure systems; Interdependency; Cost
ID GROUND MOTION; DISASTER RESILIENCE; RELIABILITY METHODS; SEISMIC
   RESILIENCE; RECOVERY; EARTHQUAKE; COMPONENT; HAZARD; PGV
AB This paper proposes a novel probabilistic framework to quantitatively evaluate the resilience of communities comprising buildings and various interdependent infrastructure systems. To this aim, the proposed framework seamlessly integrates risk models and agent based simulation in a Monte Carlo sampling scheme. The risk module includes models that evaluate the initial posthazard state of the community by probabilistic simulation of the hazard event, the structural response and damage of buildings and infrastructure systems, and cascading consequences that arise from interdependencies. Subsequently, the agent-based module simulates the recovery of the community from those consequences in which decentralized autonomous decision-making entities called "agents" undertake recovery operations. The agents prioritize buildings and infrastructure components for recovery and schedule operations as discrete events with uncertain duration and cost. Consequently, the probability distribution of the total cost incurred by the community and the total recovery time is evaluated. A resilience measure is then proposed as a function of the total community cost, which represents demand, and the gross regional product of the community, which represents the capacity to cope with that demand. The framework is showcased by a comprehensive application to a community comprising a portfolio of residential and commercial buildings, an electric power system, a water system, and a healthcare system subject to seismic hazard. DOI: 10.1061/(ASCE)ST.1943-541X.0002810. (c) 2020 American Society of Civil Engineers.
UT WOS:000574867900010
ER

PT J
AU Ouyang, M
   Liu, C
   Wu, SY
AF Ouyang, Min
   Liu, Chuang
   Wu, Shengyu
TI Worst-case vulnerability assessment and mitigation model of urban
   utility tunnels
DE Utility tunnels; Interdependencies; Urban infrastructure systems;
   Worst-case vulnerability
ID INTERDEPENDENT INFRASTRUCTURE SYSTEMS; UNDERGROUND SPACE; NETWORK
   DESIGN; RESILIENCE; RISK; IDENTIFICATION; FRAMEWORK; RAILWAY
AB Constructing utility tunnels would bring new threats, among which the terrorist threat has been identified as the most serious one. Because utility tunnels increase geographical interdependencies among urban infrastructure systems (UISs), and attacking a tunnel segment could cause simultaneous failure of all its carried systems. This paper models the terrorist threat as worst-case failure, and formulates a tri-level mathematical model to assess and mitigate the worst-case vulnerability of urban utility tunnels that carry interdependent UISs. Exact solution of the model is obtained by a column-and-constraint generation based decomposition algorithm. Real utility tunnels that carry interdependent power and water systems in Tianjin Eco-city, China, are used to demonstrate the proposed approach. Results show that there exists a threshold value of the defense budget B-D. If B-D is less than that threshold, the utility tunnels greatly benefit the attacker and increase the power and water systems' worst-case vulnerability. If B-D is equal to that threshold, the utility tunnels almost do not affect the worst-case vulnerability. If B-D is larger than that threshold, the utility tunnels benefit the defender and reduce the worst-case vulnerability.
UT WOS:000527842500043
ER

PT J
AU Lobban, H
   Almoghathawi, Y
   Morshedlou, N
   Barker, K
AF Lobban, Hannah
   Almoghathawi, Yasser
   Morshedlou, Nazanin
   Barker, Kash
TI Community vulnerability perspective on robust protection planning in
   interdependent infrastructure networks
DE Interdependent networks; robust allocation; vulnerability; optimization;
   multi-criteria decision analysis
ID RESOURCE DISTRIBUTION; SOCIAL VULNERABILITY; FLOW MODEL; RESILIENCE;
   DEFENSE; ALLOCATION; ATTACK; FORMULATION; STRATEGIES
AB Critical infrastructure networks, including water, power, communication, and transportation, among others, are necessary to society's functionality. In recent years, the threat of different types of disruptions to such infrastructure networks has become an increasingly important problem to address. Due to existing interdependencies, damage to a small area of one of the networks could have far-reaching effects on the ability to meet demand across the entire system. Common disruption scenarios include, among others, intentional malevolent attacks, natural disasters, and random failures. Similar works have focused on only one type of scenario, but combining a variety of disruptions may lead to more realistic results. Additionally, the concept of social vulnerability, which describes an area's ability to prepare for and respond to a disruption, must be included. This should promote not only the protection of the most at-risk components but also ensure that socially vulnerable communities are given adequate resources. This work provides a decision making framework to determine the allocation of defensive resources that accounts for all these factors. Accordingly, we propose a multi-objective mathematical model with the objectives of: (i) minimizing the vulnerability of a system of interdependent infrastructure networks, and (ii) minimizing the total cost of the resource allocation strategy. Moreover, to account for uncertainty in the proposed model, this paper incorporates a means to address robustness in finding the most adaptable network protection plan to reduce the vulnerability of the system of interdependent networks to a variety of disruption scenarios. The proposed work is illustrated with an application to social vulnerability and interdependent power, gas, and water networks in Shelby County, Tennessee.
UT WOS:000637132700001
ER

PT J
AU Karakoc, DB
   Barker, K
   Gonzalez, AD
AF Karakoc, Deniz Berfin
   Barker, Kash
   Gonzalez, Andres D.
TI Analyzing the tradeoff between vulnerability and recoverability
   investments for interdependent infrastructure networks
DE Interdependent infrastructures; Resilience; Preparedness investments;
   Tradeoff analysis; Optimization; Post-disruption recovery
ID DISASTER PREPAREDNESS; SOCIAL VULNERABILITY; FACILITY LOCATION;
   RESILIENCE; SYSTEM; MODEL; OPTIMIZATION; FRAMEWORK; HURRICANE; METRICS
AB Critical cyber-physical infrastructure networks such as electric power and water networks form the backbone of a functional society as these networks provide the main resources for economic productivity, healthy communities, and general day-to-day operations. However, (i) these infrastructure networks have become more interdependent on each other in terms of functionality, and (ii) community networks become more dependent on these critical infrastructures in terms of existence. Thus, studying the entirety of their resilience process-both vulnerability and recoverability against a disruption-is of importance, particularly analyzing how investing (i) before to strengthen components versus (ii) afterward to restore disrupted components can affect the resilience of infra-structure networks in terms of system performance and time. This paper takes a first step toward analyzing the tradeoff between reducing vulnerability and enhancing recoverability in interdependent infrastructure networks with multiple time and budget allocations, accounting for not only the performance of the physical networks but also the potentially socially vulnerable communities that rely upon them. The proposed model (i) maximizes a measure of the resilience of the interdependent infrastructure networks, while it (ii) minimizes the total cost associated with the pre-and post-event resource allocation. The model is illustrated with networks in Shelby County, TN, USA.
UT WOS:001007134100001
ER

PT J
AU Zhang, YL
   Yang, ND
   Lall, U
AF Zhang, Yanlu
   Yang, Naiding
   Lall, Upmanu
TI Modeling and simulation of the vulnerability of interdependent
   power-water infrastructure networks to cascading failures
DE Interdependent infrastructure networks; vulnerability; cascading
   failures; complex network; numerical simulation
ID SCALE-FREE NETWORKS; PROPAGATION; BEHAVIOR; ERROR
AB Critical infrastructures are becoming increasingly interdependent and vulnerable to cascading failures. Existing studies have analyzed the vulnerability of interdependent networks to cascading failures from the static perspective of network topology structure. This paper develops a more realistic cascading failures model that considers the dynamic redistribution of load in power network to explore the vulnerability of interdependent power-water networks. In this model, the critical tolerance threshold is originally proposed to indicate the vulnerability of network to cascading failures. In addition, some key parameters that are important to network vulnerability are identified and quantified through numerical simulation. Results show that cascading failures can be prevented when the values of tolerance parameter are above a critical tolerance threshold. Otherwise interdependent networks collapse after attacking a critical fraction of power nodes. Interdependent networks become more vulnerable with the increase in interdependence strength, which implies the importance of protecting those interconnected nodes to reduce the consequences of cascading failures. Interdependent networks are most vulnerable under high-load attack, which shows the significance of protecting high-load nodes.
UT WOS:000371807900006
ER

PT J
AU Miao, HQ
   Gao, SY
   Wang, D
AF Miao, Huiquan
   Gao, Siyuan
   Wang, Ding
TI Framework for Designing Virtual Water and Power Supply Networks with
   Interdependent Characteristics for Resilience Assessment
DE virtual city; interdependent infrastructure; water supply network; power
   supply network; resilience
ID COMMUNITY BUILDING PORTFOLIOS; SEISMIC RESILIENCE; COMPLEX NETWORKS;
   RECOVERY; FAILURES; MODEL
AB Urban water and power supply networks with interdependent characteristics are essential components of urban infrastructures and play an important role in maintaining the daily operations and post-disaster recovery of cities. The aim of this study is to provide a method for researchers of resilient cities to build virtual water and power supply networks according to their basic physical mechanisms so that they can complete the risk or resilience evaluation of benchmark cities when some confidential infrastructure information is difficult to obtain. The innovation is that a new design framework for urban virtual water and power networks with interdependent characteristics combined with geographic information is suggested based on the perspective of practical engineering. After giving an overview of the framework, this paper presents the planning and design of the water and power supply networks as well as the interdependence between them in detail. Then the water and power supply networks of a virtual city called Virtual Shangcheng City are established, which verify the feasibility and practicality of the approach. This framework can establish virtual water and power supply networks with interdependent characteristics that conform to actual engineering and urban geographic information characteristics. Moreover, it can provide an effective modeling method for water and power supply networks in the absence of data for urban resilience and disaster risk studies.
UT WOS:000874206600001
ER

PT J
AU Zhang, XJ
   Karady, GG
   Piratla, KR
   Ariaratnam, ST
AF Zhang, Xianjun
   Karady, George G.
   Piratla, Kalyan R.
   Ariaratnam, Samuel T.
TI Network Capacity Assessment of Combined Heat and Power-Based Distributed
   Generation in Urban Energy Infrastructures
DE Combined heat and power (CHP); distributed generation (DG); load flow
   analysis; mathematical programming
AB The growing penetration of distributed generation (DG) and use of combined heat and power (CHP) techniques have made electrical distribution systems and water distribution systems increasingly interdependent. This paper proposes an integrated dispatch model that offers a generalized means for determining the potential accommodated DG capacity along with appropriate DG sitting for given urban electricity and water system configurations. The AC optimal power flow (ACOPF)-based system model was developed for each phase of a modified electrical distribution test feeder. A corresponding water distribution system was then designed with its mathematical model developed. A mathematical model of the CHP-based DG system was also developed to couple the electricity and water systems. Results indicate the optimal DG capacity and its optimal sitting based on urban electricity and water infrastructures. The present water network cannot support the complete recovery of the exhaust heat. The mutual impacts on operational performances of CHP-based DG units and urban energy infrastructures were also investigated.
UT WOS:000328064100042
ER

PT J
AU Val, DV
   Holden, R
   Nodwell, S
AF Val, Dimitri V.
   Holden, Richard
   Nodwell, Sarah
TI Probabilistic analysis of interdependent infrastructures subjected to
   weather-related hazards
DE infrastructure systems; interdependency; community-scale; network flow
   model; failure; probabilistic analysis
ID NETWORK FLOW; SYSTEMS; VULNERABILITY; RESTORATION; EVENTS; MODELS
AB Simulation of the infrastructure performance using numerical models may significantly assist in developing strategies for improving its resilience to harmful effects of climate change. This paper presents a model for simulating the performance of interdependent infrastructure systems based on an extended network flow approach, i.e. infrastructure systems are considered as a network of nodes connected by directed edges. The model has been specifically developed to simulate the infrastructure performance at a community scale and has higher node resolution compared to typical models of infrastructure systems at the national level. The model is time-dependent so that the infrastructure performance can be assessed at discrete points over a period of time. Parameters describing the performance of infrastructure assets (e.g. production and flow capacities, demands) can be treated as random variables or probabilities can be assigned to failures of the assets. The application of the model is illustrated by the probabilistic assessment of the performance of two interdependent infrastructure systems - electrical power and water, damaged by flooding.
UT WOS:000337360100005
ER

PT J
AU Li, Y
   Zhang, MY
AF Li, Yang
   Zhang, Mingyuan
TI Cascading failure analysis of interdependent water-power networks based
   on functional coupling
DE Water supply network; Electric power network; Cascading failure;
   Functional coupling; Earthquake
ID CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE; VULNERABILITY; SIMULATION; PROPAGATION;
   RELIABILITY; RESILIENCE; SYSTEMS; IMPACT; MODEL
AB Due to the increasing interdependence and interconnection, the water supply network (WSN) and electric power network (EPN) face a higher risk of cascading failures. Existing studies mainly focus on the cascading failures of the single network but rarely on the interdependent water-power networks (IWPN) under earthquakes. Therefore, combined with the physical operation characteristics, this paper proposes a cascading failure analysis method for interdependent water-power networks based on functional coupling. First, we define the functional coupling relationships between the IWPN and establish a topology model of the IWPN. Subsequently, the joint probability and functional coupling strength are introduced to determine the failure probability of coupled components in the WSN and EPN. The initial failure components are determined by a random method. Then, the node load function and line capacity function are introduced as the judgment conditions of cascading failure of the WSN and EPN, respectively. The cascading failure transmission process of the WSN and EPN is further conducted based on the dynamical flow model. Further, a calculation method for the functional loss of the WSN and EPN is proposed. Finally, the proposed methodology is applied to the coupling WSN of a certain city and IEEE118 node network. The results show that cascading failures in the IWPN spread wider than a single network and cause more serious functional losses. The findings of this work would have important implications for formulating disaster prevention and mitigation measures and seismic performance improvement strategies for interdependent infrastructure networks.
UT WOS:001434966600001
ER

PT J
AU Zhou, F
   Lu, ZS
   Yu, B
   Li, BJ
AF Zhou, Fang
   Lu, Zhisen
   Yu, Bo
   Li, Bingjun
TI Assessment of urban critical infrastructure resilience: integrating
   uncertainty failures and cascading failures
DE Urban resilience; Critical infrastructure; Aleatory uncertainty;
   Cascading failure
ID MODELING INTERDEPENDENT INFRASTRUCTURES; RISK; VULNERABILITY;
   RELIABILITY; NETWORKS; TRADEOFF; WEIGHT; SYSTEM
AB City depends on critical infrastructure systems such as electricity, water and gas that provide essential urban services. Whether it is a weather disaster or a sudden security incident, such uncertain events can disrupt these critical infrastructures and thus disrupt social services. There is still a gap in research on the resilience of urban critical infrastructure networks under uncertainty failure. This study proposes a methodology to explore the cascading failure of urban critical infrastructure networks under the influence of uncertainty failure, and makes a resilience evaluation based on node failure models and cascading failure simulations. Usually, the impact of uncertainty failure is related to the distance to the centre point of failure, but the centre point of uncertainty failure is random, so the impact caused by uncertainty failure is uncertain. The cascading failure also has uncertainty when it occurs, so the cascading failure under uncertainty failure cannot be quantitatively analyzed in previous studies. In this study, Monte Carlo simulation is applied to quantify the double uncertainty through statistical analysis, and in this way, a brand new model is constructed, which is used to comprehensively evaluate the resilience of urban critical infrastructures under uncertainty failure.
UT WOS:001639785800001
ER

PT C
AU Thompson, JR
   Frezza, D
   Necioglu, B
   Cohen, M
   Hoffman, K
   Rosfjord, K
AF Thompson, James R.
   Frezza, Damon
   Necioglu, Burhan
   Cohen, Michael
   Hoffman, Kenneth
   Rosfjord, Kristine
GP IEEE
TI An Agent-based Model for the Evidence-Based Long Term Planning of Power
   and Water Critical Infrastructures
AB The comfort, mobility, and economic well-being of the U.S. population depends on reliable and affordable electric power services. Sustainable water supplies are required for operating conventional power plants and long-term planning across these sectors is not well coordinated. It is increasingly important to analyze the security, sustainability, and resilience of mid-and long-term electric utility and water system capacity expansion plans in an integrated fashion with respect to potential challenges posed by climate change and other risks to this critical infrastructure. We develop an agent-based model (ABM) of a typical regional power system that incorporates the features of specific plant types and their cooling systems that are dependent on abundant water supplies at appropriate temperatures and quantities to support full power operation. The effects of potential water restrictions and constraints to power plant cooling systems (cooling towers, cooling ponds, and once-through condensers) are analyzed to estimate the potential impact of climate change or water temperature restrictions on a particular long-term expansion plan.
UT WOS:000403403400088
ER

PT J
AU Alhazmi, M
   Dehghanian, P
   Nazemi, M
   Wang, F
   Alfadda, A
AF Alhazmi, Mohannad
   Dehghanian, Payman
   Nazemi, Mostafa
   Wang, Fei
   Alfadda, Abdullah
TI Optimal Operation of Integrated Water-Power Systems Under Contingencies
DE Contingency analysis; dc optimal power flow (DCOPF); emergency response;
   interdependent networks; water and power systems (WaPS); water-energy
   nexus (WEN)
ID ECONOMIC-DISPATCH; ENERGY NEXUS; SUPPLY-SIDE; MANAGEMENT; FOOD
AB With the sharply growing complexity and rapid deployment of smart technologies in our modern society, risk-aware management and coordination in day-to-day operation of the interlinked critical infrastructures is urgently needed. In particular, the interconnected water and power systems (WaPS) are in need of joint and cooperative operation to maximize the economic benefits during normal operating conditions and resilience services during emergencies. While contingency analysis is used to assist the system operators in gaining knowledge of the system's static security, such understanding is more challenging to achieve in the case of integrated WaPS. This article proposes a novel optimization model for under-emergency operation of the integrated WaPS, considering contingencies in both networks. In order to ensure the delivery of water demand, the proposed formulation considers the hydraulic constraints of the water networks, which is naturally a nonlinear model. The proposed nonlinear model is approximated using a piece-wise linearization approach to convert the optimization model into a mixed-integer linear programming formulation. The proposed analytics are applied to a modified IEEE 24-bus reliability test system that is jointly operated with two and three commercial-scale water networks. The proposed model is evaluated using various disaster severity levels (i.e., N - k contingency scenarios) and verify the promising performance of the proposed integrated WaPS model when facing failures and threatening high impact low probability emergencies.
UT WOS:000838527800016
ER

PT C
AU Alhazmi, M
   Dehghanian, P
   Nazemi, M
   Wang, F
   Alfadda, A
AF Alhazmi, Mohannad
   Dehghanian, Payman
   Nazemi, Mostafa
   Wang, Fei
   Alfadda, Abdullah
GP IEEE
TI Coordination Framework for Integrated Operation of Water-Power Systems
   under Contingencies
DE Water-energy nexus (WEN); water and power systems (WaPS); emergency
   response; contingency analysis; interdependent networks; optimal power
   flow (OPF)
ID ENERGY; NEXUS; MARIA; FOOD
AB With the sharply-growing complexity and rapid deployment of smart technologies in our modern society, there is an urgent call for risk-aware management and coordination in day-to-day operation of the interlinked critical infrastructures. In particular, the interconnected Water and Power Systems (WaPS) stands out, urgently in need of joint and cooperative operation to maximize the economic benefits during normal operating conditions and resilience services during emergencies. The interdependency of WaPS is crucial for emergency response to High Impact Low Probability (HILP) incidents, the frequency and intensity of which have been recently on the rise. While contingency analysis is used to assist the system operators in gaining knowledge of the system's static security, such understanding is more challenging to achieve in the case of integrated WaPS. This paper proposes a novel optimization model for under-emergency operation of the integrated WaPS, considering contingencies in both networks. In order to ensure the delivery of water demand, the proposed formulation considers the hydraulic constraints of the water networks, which is naturally a nonlinear model. The proposed nonlinear model is approximated using a piece-wise linearization approach to convert the optimization model into a mixed-integer linear programming (MILP) formulation. The proposed analysis is applied to a modified IEEE 24-bus reliability test system that is jointly operated with two commercial-scale water networks. The proposed model is evaluated using various disaster severity levels, revealing significant resilience benefits.
UT WOS:000821959500114
ER

PT J
AU Liu, SB
   Shi, SY
   Cui, HL
   Zhao, X
AF Liu, Shibo
   Shi, Shiyi
   Cui, Hailong
   Zhao, Xia
TI Energy-water management for sustainable development: Low-carbon
   coordinated scheduling of wastewater treatment plants, power and water
   distribution networks via Nash bargaining
DE PV-integrated wastewater treatment plants; Low-carbon operation;
   Water-energy nexus; Coordinated scheduling
AB As the global community accelerates zero-carbon transitions toward 2030, decarbonizing energy-intensive wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) operating within the water-energy nexus has become an urgent imperative. Integrating renewable energy and flexible resource recovery into WWTPs has therefore emerged as a promising pathway to reduce operating costs and carbon emissions. While existing literature optimizes WWTPs integrated with photovoltaics (PV), scheduling studies on utilizing CO2 hydrogenation for methanol synthesis to enhance circular resource recovery and support denitrification remain scarce. Furthermore, coordinated scheduling models for WWTPs, power distribution networks (PDNs), and water distribution networks (WDNs) often overlook autonomous decision-making, rely on oversimplified WWTP constraints, and lack cross-sector pricing mechanisms to mitigate the WDN's cost burden for reclaimed water. To address these gaps, this paper proposes a day-ahead scheduling model for a PV-integrated WWTP, incorporating CO2 hydrogenation for methanol synthesis to support biological nitrogen removal and drive sustainable low-carbon operations. Based on water-energy coupling, an asymmetric Nash bargaining model is established to facilitate tripartite cooperation among the WWTP, PDN, and WDN, introducing an electricity-water ratio-based bargaining power calculation to ensure equitable benefit allocation. Simulations on a 60,000 m3/d WWTP, an IEEE 33-node PDN, and a 12-node WDN demonstrate that on-site methanol synthesis reduces accounted operational carbon emissions and enhances PV self-consumption. Concurrently, tripartite scheduling substantially lowers total operational costs and optimizes reclaimed water pricing.
UT WOS:001810483200001
ER

PT J
AU Najafi, J
   Eliades, DG
   Panteli, M
AF Najafi, Javad
   Eliades, Demetris G.
   Panteli, Mathaios
TI Emergency Coordination of Water Pumps and Pump-as-Turbine Units for
   Resilient Water-Power Systems
DE Modeling; Pumps; Water; Loading; Water pumps; Resilience; Energy;
   Measurement units; Timing; Indexes; Coordinated systems; power networks;
   pump-as-turbine; resilience; water networks
AB Leveraging alternative energy sources and load flexibility in interconnected infrastructures can enhance the recovery of power distribution networks (PDNs) during low-probability, high-impact events. This study proposes an emergency coordination framework between PDNs and water distribution networks (WDNs) that co-optimizes water pumps as flexible loads and pumps-as-turbines (PATs), as distributed energy sources through strategic pressure management. The framework consists of three steps: 1) PDN shares the restoration start time and emergency duration with WDN; 2) WDN schedules pumps and PATs by solving two pressure-minimizing hydraulic optimization subproblems and reports the resulting power profiles to the PDN; 3) PDN solves a mixed integer linear programming to maximize prioritized load restoration using the provided information, microgrids formation, and tie-line operation, and then signals whether to implement the WDN schedule. Case studies on the IEEE 33-bus PDN integrated with the NET3 WDN demonstrate the framework's effectiveness. Across scenarios with varying line outages and emergency durations, coordinated operation increases average restored active loads from 33.31% (without coordination) to 39.58% (with coordination), and to 40.03% when a PAT supplies 10.60 kW on average. Correspondingly, WDN pressure satisfaction adjusts from 100% to 96.77% and 94.76%, highlighting the importance of explicit resilience tradeoff analysis.
UT WOS:001850209600001
ER

PT J
AU Omidvar, B
   Malekshah, MH
   Omidvar, H
AF Omidvar, Babak
   Malekshah, Mohammad Hojjati
   Omidvar, Hamed
TI Failure risk assessment of interdependent infrastructures against
   earthquake, a Petri net approach: case study-power and water
   distribution networks
DE Critical infrastructures interaction; Petri net; Markov chain; Water
   network; Power network; Network analysis; Tehran
ID INPUT-OUTPUT MODEL
AB Metropolitan areas consist of complicated systems of interconnected infrastructures that are highly interdependent. Disruption of one infrastructure may induce disruption in other interconnected ones. The results from analysis of one infrastructure as an independent system are not realistic without considering the behavior of other interconnected infrastructures. Consequently, the study of the interdependencies among critical infrastructures is important for addressing the cascading effects of a failed infrastructure on the entire network to properly model its performance and help the disaster management team in decision making. In this study, the extended Petri net and Markov chain have been used to demonstrate the power and water infrastructure interdependency with a case study of one of the municipal districts of metropolitan Tehran, the capital of Iran. In this research, three cases have been assessed quantitatively: (1) the intra-dependency effects of different components in each network, (2) the interdependency effects between the considered critical infrastructures and (3) the behavior of the water network considering intra- and interdependency, when the power network fails. The analyses show that considering the mentioned interdependencies has a major influence on their performance simulations and assessment of their exact vulnerability. It is concluded that the failure probability of the water network that is dependent on the failed power network is 1.66 of the independent water network in the studied region. Eventually, the results of the research could be used in design, restoration and disaster management planning for safety assessment of critical infrastructures.
UT WOS:000332025200037
ER

PT J
AU Gupta, HS
AF Gupta, Himadri Sen
TI Optimizing k-Removal AUC for Urban Infrastructure Networks
DE Buildings; Robustness; Optimization; Measurement; Trees (botanical);
   Planning; Monte Carlo methods; Certification; Urban areas; STEM; Area
   under curve (AUC); critical infrastructure; graph algorithms; greedy
   algorithms; k-removal curve; Monte Carlo tree search; multi-layer
   networks; network robustness; resilience planning
ID RESILIENCE ASSESSMENT; VULNERABILITY; MITIGATION; SYSTEM; FRAMEWORK;
   CASCADE; MODELS; TIME
AB This paper presents a single-city case study (Seaside, Oregon) that ranks cross-layer infrastructure nodes (transport, power, and water) by directly optimizing early service-loss AUC. Rather than use proxy centralities, we optimize the evaluation metric directly: the normalized area under the k -removal curve (AUC) on a fixed grid ( alpha is an element of{0.10,0.20,0.30} ). A two-stage, CPU-only pipeline plans a short prefix with Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS; shortlist M , rollouts, iterations fixed for fairness) and completes the order with a Cost-Effective Lazy Forward (CELF) lazy-greedy tail using exact bitset coverage. On Seaside ( N=1176 infrastructure nodes; B=4679 buildings), our method attains AUC approximate to 0.714 at alpha=0.20 , outperforming Degree (0.231), PageRank (0.239), k -core (0.263), Collective Influence (CI) (0.223), approximate Betweenness (0.247; sampling budget), and an attachment-count heuristic (0.528). Robustness evidence alpha -sensitivity ( 0.10/0.20/0.30 ), dependency-rule variants (single vs. multi-attachment; AND/OR), demand weights, attachment jitter, and missing buildings show that the observed advantages are not an artifact of a single modeling choice. We also report a fair-compute comparison using wall-clock time and method-specific budgets. For k is an element of{5,10} , we certify small- k optima via exact MILP (SciPy milp) and report optimality gaps and solver statuses. Overall, this single-city case study suggests that directly optimizing the k -removal AUC yields a simple, CPU-only, auditable ranking that aligns with building-level service loss; establishing external validity will require multi-city assessment.
UT WOS:001666956500027
ER

PT J
AU Zhang, XJ
   Karady, GG
   Ariaratnam, ST
AF Zhang, Xianjun
   Karady, George G.
   Ariaratnam, Samuel T.
TI Optimal Allocation of CHP-Based Distributed Generation on Urban Energy
   Distribution Networks
DE Combined heat and power (CHP); distributed generation (DG); load flow
   analysis; mathematical programming; water and gas distribution networks
ID POWER-FLOW; EFFICIENCY
AB The continuing penetration of combined heat and power (CHP)-based distributed generation (DG) has made urban electricity, water, and natural gas distribution networks increasingly interconnected. This paper analyzes the optimal network capacity and distribution of the CHP-based DG based on urban energy distribution networks by introducing an integrated system dispatch model. The electricity, water, and gas network models were designed and developed individually. The CHP-based DG model was developed to couple these energy distribution systems. The results indicate the optimal allocation of CHP-based DG by analyzing multiple factors and mutual impacts on operational performances of the CHP-based DG units and energy distribution networks. The designed typical gas system is capable of supplying sufficient natural gas for DG normal operations, whereas the present water system cannot support the complete recovery of the exhaust heat from large CHP-based DG penetration.
UT WOS:000328949000027
ER

PT J
AU Zhu, J
   Manandhar, B
   Truong, J
   Ganapati, NE
   Pradhananga, N
   Davidson, RA
   Mostafavi, A
AF Zhu, Jin
   Manandhar, Barsha
   Truong, Jenny
   Ganapati, N. Emel
   Pradhananga, Nipesh
   Davidson, Rachel A.
   Mostafavi, Ali
TI Assessment of Infrastructure Resilience in the 2015 Gorkha, Nepal,
   Earthquake
ID FRAMEWORK
AB Despite many studies on infrastructure resilience in the existing literature, there is a limited empirical understanding of disaster resilience in the context of intermittent infrastructure systems. To fill this knowledge gap, our study provides an example assessment of the resilience of Kathmandu Valley's electricity and water supply infrastructure systems in the 2015 Gorkha earthquake. The study is based on qualitative data collected over a period of one year following the earthquake, obtained through in-depth interviews (n = 52), a focus group, and a review of secondary sources. A resilience assessment framework that includes eight factors adapted from existing studies-vulnerability, anticipation, redundancy, adaptive capacity, rapidity, resourcefulness, cross-scale interactions, and learning culture-was used for the data analysis. The characteristics of intermittent infrastructure systems pertaining to resilience identified in this study could have important implications for engineers and decision makers in developing communities to better design and maintain infrastructure in the face of disasters.
UT WOS:000440156400010
ER

PT J
AU Alkhaleel, BA
   Liao, HT
   Sullivan, KM
AF Alkhaleel, Basem A.
   Liao, Haitao
   Sullivan, Kelly M.
TI Model and solution method for mean-risk cost-based post-disruption
   restoration of interdependent critical infrastructure networks
DE Interdependent infrastructure networks; Post-disruption restoration;
   Mixed-integer linear programming
ID SCHEDULING PROBLEMS; SCENARIO REDUCTION; ROUTING PROBLEM; RESILIENCE;
   DESIGN; SIMULATION; SYSTEMS; DECOMPOSITION; ALGORITHM; AVERSE
AB Critical infrastructure networks (CINs), such as power grids, water distribution systems, and telecommunication networks, are essential for the functioning of society and the economy. As these infrastructure networks are not isolated from each other, their functions are not independent and may be vulnerable to disruptive events (e.g., component failures, terrorist attacks, natural disasters). For decision makers, how to restore the functions of CINs while accounting for interdependencies and various uncertainties becomes a challenging task. In this work, we study the post-disruption restoration problem for a system of interdependent CINs under uncertainty. We propose a two-stage mean-risk stochastic restoration model using mixed-integer linear programming (MILP) with the goal of minimizing the total cost associated with unsatisfied demands, repair tasks, and flow of interdependent infrastructure networks. The restoration model considers the availability of limited time and resources and provides a prioritized list of components to be restored along with assigning and scheduling them to the available network-specific work crews. Additionally, the model features flexible restoration strategies including multicrew assignment for a single component and a multimodal repair setting along with the consideration of full and partial functioning and dependencies between the multi-network components. The proposed model is illustrated using the power and water networks in Shelby County, Tennessee, United States, under two hypothetical earthquake scenarios.
UT WOS:000793115900004
ER

PT J
AU Williams, JB
AF Williams, James Bryan
TI Critical flow centrality measures on interdependent networks with time
   demands
DE Component importance measures; Centrality measures; Network science;
   Infrastructure reliability; Network reliability; Network dependencies
ID INFRASTRUCTURE; SYSTEMS; RISK
AB This paper presents a method that allows urban planners and municipal engineers to identify critical components of interdependent infrastructure systems. The intent of the method is to provide a means of modeling the impact of capacity-related changes (e.g., population growth, component degradation) on a city's ability to deliver resources to critical locations. Infrastructure systems are modeled as flow networks in which capacities, demands, and supply constraints vary over time; demand nodes also have criticality ratings that allow a user to model levels of importance. Interconnections between infrastructure systems are represented by physical and geospatial dependencies at a component level. A flow-based centrality measure is used to rank components according to their role in the delivery of resources to critical locations. A simple instantiation of the method is presented and evaluated on a district-scale model of a city that contains interconnected water and electricity networks. Finally, two forms of reliability analysis are demonstrated: a composite measure incorporating edge reliability, and a variation on standard component failure/degradation analysis.
UT WOS:000701920100009
ER

PT J
AU Atsiz, E
   Balcik, B
   Gunnec, D
   Sevindik, BU
AF Atsiz, Eren
   Balcik, Burcu
   Gunnec, Dilek
   Sevindik, Busra Uydasoglu
TI A coordinated repair routing problem for post-disaster recovery of
   interdependent infrastructure networks
DE Interdependent infrastructure networks; Repair planning; Coordinated
   routing; Simulated annealing
ID TIME WINDOWS; RESTORATION; SYSTEMS; DESIGN
AB Disasters may cause significant damages and long-lasting failures in lifeline infrastructure networks (such as gas, power and water), which must be recovered quickly to resume providing essential services to the affected communities. While making repair plans, it is important to consider the interdependencies among network components to minimize recovery times. In this paper, we focus on post-disaster repair operations of multiple interdependent lifeline networks, which involve functional dependencies. We assume that each network component, whether damaged or not, becomes nonfunctional if it depends on another nonfunctional component, and it is recovered when all components that it depends on become functional. We introduce a post-disaster coordinated infrastructure repair routing problem, in which dedicated repair teams of each lifeline infrastructure travel through a road network to visit the sites with damaged network components. We present a mixed integer programming model that assigns repair teams to the sites and constructs routes for each team in order to minimize the sum of the recovery times for all network components. We develop a constructive heuristic and a simulated annealing algorithm to solve the proposed coordinated routing problem. We test the performance of the proposed solution algorithms on a set of instances that are developed based on two interdependent lifeline networks (e.g., power and gas). The computational results show that our heuristics can quickly find high-quality solutions. Our results also indicate that coordinating repair operations can significantly improve the overall recovery time of interdependent infrastructure networks.
UT WOS:000612890500002
ER

PT C
AU Wang, Y
   Zeng, B
   Wang, JY
   Liu, ZY
AF Wang, Yuan
   Zeng, Bo
   Wang, Jiayu
   Liu, Ziyang
GP IEEE
TI Integrated Planning of Data Centers and Coupled Electricity-water
   Systems with Renewable Energy for Low-carbon Goals
DE data centers; renewable energy; distributionally robust optimization;
   planning
AB Data centers, as an emerging load with high energy and water consumption, contribute indirectly to significant carbon emissions. To align with national low-carbon goals and promote sustainable resource use, a joint planning strategy for data centers, distribution networks, and water supply networks is proposed, considering distributed renewable energy integration and carbon trading markets. The proposed strategy is solved using a two-stage distributionally robust optimization approach, balancing system economy, low-carbon performance, and robustness. Alternating optimization is used for binary variables in the lower-level problem. A case studies validate the method's effectiveness.
UT WOS:001799473100068
ER

PT C
AU Magoua, JJ
   Wang, F
   Li, N
AF Magoua, Joseph Jonathan
   Wang, Fei
   Li, Nan
BE Jazizadeh, F
   Shealy, T
   Garvin, MJ
TI Incorporating the Human Factor in Modeling Interdependent Infrastructure
   Systems
AB The behavior of critical infrastructure systems (CISs) greatly depends on the performance and reliability of the human agents that interact with the CISs. To accurately assess and predict the behavior of interdependent CISs, interdependent CISs models must not only consider the heterogeneities and interdependencies of the systems, but also the human factor. Previous studies focused on developing interdependent CISs models that only consider the technical factor. In this study, a framework for incorporating the human factor in the modeling of interdependent CISs is proposed, one that can integrate the knowledge, data, and simulation tools of CISs and humans from various domains. Domain-specific CIS models and human performance models are co-simulated to capture systemic heterogeneities and the complex dynamic system-system and human-system interactions. A case study of two interdependent power system and water system is presented to reveal the influence of considering the human factors on the behavior and performance of interdependent CISs.
UT WOS:000776637300036
ER

PT C
AU Momeni, A
   Prasad, V
   Dharmawardena, HI
   Piratla, KR
   Venayagamoorthy, K
AF Momeni, Ahmad
   Prasad, Vindhyawasini
   Dharmawardena, Hasala I.
   Piratla, Kalyan R.
   Venayagamoorthy, Kumar
GP IEEE
TI Mapping and Modeling Interdependent Power, Water, and Gas
   Infrastructures
DE Components; Cascading Failure; Interdependent Infrastructure; Power
   Grid; PWG Networks; Real-time
ID CASCADING FAILURES; ELECTRIC-POWER; SIMULATION; NETWORKS; VULNERABILITY;
   CONSEQUENCES; MANAGEMENT; STABILITY; LESSONS; FLOW
AB Although various aspects of interdependencies among Power, Water, and Gas (PWG) infrastructures have been studied in the last couple of decades, there still exists void of modeling techniques capable of revealing the interdependencies among real-world infrastructures. This paper presents review of the state-of-the-art knowledge on interdependent critical infrastructure (ICI) modeling techniques along with delineation and discussion of interdependencies at transmission and distribution levels among PWG networks. The present study will also outline the suitability of various approaches to work with real-time infrastructure monitoring data that is becoming abundantly available in the recent years. The paper also highlights some directions on future research in interdependency modeling as well as suggestions on improving real-time interdependent models in operational and physical aspects.
UT WOS:000467093500043
ER

PT J
AU Tiong, A
   Vergara, HA
AF Tiong, Achara
   Vergara, Hector A.
TI A two-stage stochastic multi-objective resilience optimization model for
   network expansion of interdependent power-water networks under
   disruption
DE Multi-objective optimization; Two-stage stochastic programming;
   Interdependent networks; Resilience; Network expansion; DC power flow
ID MATHEMATICAL FRAMEWORK; INFRASTRUCTURE SYSTEMS; SUPPLIER SELECTION;
   ORDER ALLOCATION; NATIONAL ENERGY; FLOW MODEL; METRICS; DESIGN;
   VULNERABILITY; EFFICIENT
AB Network expansion of interdependent critical infrastructures under disruption uncertainty is modeled as a mixed-integer two-stage stochastic multi-objective optimization program. In this model, expected total cost and expected post-disaster resilience are considered competing objectives. Network resilience is quantified through network complexity and unmet demand. Functional relationships between critical infrastructures are modeled using a network-based approach with the physical interdependency enforced through demand constraints. Uncertainty is introduced as a set of random parameters corresponding to disruption scenarios. The proposed model is demonstrated in a case study of coupled power-water networks with the power flow in the grid modeled using linear DC power flow approximation equations. The deterministic-equivalent multi-objective model is solved using the augmented &-constraint method. Solutions from stochastic and deterministic models are compared and the value of stochastic optimization is discussed.
UT WOS:000931670800001
ER

PT C
AU Santhosh, A
   Farid, AM
   Youcef-Toumi, K
AF Santhosh, Apoorva
   Farid, Amro M.
   Youcef-Toumi, Kamal
GP IEEE
TI Optimal Network Flow for the Supply Side of the Energy-Water Nexus
ID COGENERATION; POWER; DESALINATION
AB Clean energy and water are two essential resources that any society must securely deliver. Their usage raises sustainability issues and questions of nations' resilience in face of global changes and mega-trends such as population growth, global climate change, and economic growth. Recently, attention has been paid to the infrastructure systems for water distribution and power transmission and the coupling between them in what is commonly known as the energy-water nexus. Although numerous policy and regulatory agencies have addressed the subject, rarely is it holistically addressed in terms of an integrated engineering system for its management, planning, and regulation as an interdisciplinary concern. This work specifically addresses the supply side of this integrated engineering system framework. It takes as its subject the real-time optimal flows in power and water networks. Significant background literature is brought to bear on this topic including the emerging co-dispatch of power and water and the more well established optimizations for power and water networks individually. The work presents a mathematical optimization program for the co-dispatch of the two commodities for three types of plants: power generation plants, co-production facilities and water production plants. Production costs are minimized subject to capacity, demand and transmission constraints and demonstrated on an illustrative example of modest size developed from standard test cases. On a practical basis, the program can be applied directly in middle eastern countries where water and power distribution are typically under the responsibility of a single utility. Furthermore, the program provides a systematic method of achieving optimal results and can serve as a basis for set-points upon which individual plants can implement their optimal control. In so doing, it makes a supply-side contribution to the ongoing grand-challenge of improving the sustainability of the energy-water nexus.
UT WOS:000330646900023
ER

PT J
AU Applegate, CJ
   Tien, I
AF Applegate, Chloe Johansen
   Tien, Iris
TI Framework for Probabilistic Vulnerability Analysis of Interdependent
   Infrastructure Systems
ID BAYESIAN NETWORK; RELIABILITY ASSESSMENT; IDENTIFICATION
AB Critical infrastructure systems are deteriorating and experiencing increased cascading failures. In this paper, we propose a new probabilistic framework for modeling interdependent infrastructure networks. As part of this framework, we present our modeling approach and the accompanying sets of algorithms that enable the computationally efficient probabilistic modeling of large infrastructure systems considering interdependencies between networks. The proposed method creates a representative Bayesian network (BN) of the system, which provides exact inferences over the network compared to simulation-based approximations. With the traditional computational limitations of BNs to tens of parent component nodes per child system node, our generalized framework enables computationally efficient BN modeling of systems of, for example, hundreds of component nodes, including component-level performance and interdependent connections across networks. Our approach requires only simple inputs based on the basic component characteristics of location, type, connectivity, and initial failure probabilities. We modeled three types of interdependencies across the systemservice provision, geographic, and access for repair. We combined a minimum link set (MLS) formulation with the idea of supercomponents in order to reduce network complexity without any approximating assumptions. We present algorithms to efficiently identify MLSs and supercomponents, as well as to identify and remove any cyclic dependencies that arise across the network. Once the BN was constructed, we were able to perform exact inference analyses over a range of component state and hazard event scenarios in order to identify vulnerabilities across the network. The main novelty of the paper is to enable the probabilistic assessment of large, complex, interdependent infrastructure systems. We were able to consider performance from the component level and model hundreds of component nodes in a computationally efficient manner without approximating assumptions. We accounted for interdependencies between systems with exact inference results. The model can be used to investigate the potential for cascading failures and to prioritize critical components for repair, replacement, or reinforcement. We applied the proposed methodology and algorithms to the water distribution network in Atlanta, Georgia, and its dependencies with the power system. We validated the model using the results from a recent interdependent outage event.
UT WOS:000450401200005
ER

PT J
AU Huang, XY
   Chen, WJ
   Huang, GR
AF Huang, Xiuyi
   Chen, Wenjie
   Huang, Guoru
TI Modeling and analysis of urban critical infrastructure dynamic cascading
   failures in urban floods based on Simulink
DE Urban flooding; Critical infrastructure system; Cascade effect;
   Spatio-Temporal Analysis; Community
ID HYBRID SYSTEMS; POWER-SYSTEMS; SIMULATION; RESILIENCE; COMPLEX
AB Cities are severely impacted by urban extreme flood disasters, which can trigger cascading failures across critical infrastructure systems (CISs) like electricity, water, and telecommunications. This study models urban infrastructure dynamic cascading failures using MATLAB Simulink, with Guangzhou's central area as a case study. The local electricity, water supply, and telecommunication systems were modeled as interconnected modules based on functional supply-demand relationships. A 500-year rainfall event combined with a 500-year tidal level was simulated using InfoWorks ICM to drive the cascading model. The disaster was analyzed from four perspectives: system performance, facility anomaly causes, failure chain evolution, and spatiotemporal impacts on communities. System performances for electricity, water, and wireless communication were 63.1 %, 63.2 %, and 21.8 % of normal levels at the end of the rain, dropping to 33.6 %, 3.2 %, and 2.7 % respectively two days later. The spatial inconsistency between flood inundation and the effects of CISs service reduction was discovered, providing a novel perspective for urban flood emergency management. This scalable CIS cascading failure model can serve as a valuable reference framework for other locations.
UT WOS:001694400100001
ER

PT J
AU Yang, QJ
   Xie, ZQ
   Xu, JR
   Zhang, YF
   Sun, YH
   Cheng, W
   Wang, JX
   Liu, YF
   Yuan, ZY
   Li, YF
   Gan, CY
   Zhou, HB
AF Yang, Qijia
   Xie, Zhiqiang
   Xu, Jiarui
   Zhang, Yuanfang
   Sun, Yihao
   Cheng, Wei
   Wang, Junxiao
   Liu, Yifei
   Yuan, Zhiyong
   Li, Yufei
   Gan, Chenyang
   Zhou, Haibin
TI Life-line assurance in the urbanization process: revealing the coupled
   safety resilience of municipal underground pipelines and its influential
   characteristics
DE Municipal Underground Pipelines; Resilience Evaluation; DANP; GIS
   Quantitative Expression; Spatial Autocorrelation
ID INFRASTRUCTURE
AB As a critical medium for urban energy transmission, frequent incidents in Municipal Underground Pipelines (MUPs) amid climate change have become a challenge in China's urbanization. However, the Coupled safety resilience of MUPs (CSR-MUPs) and its spatial characteristics under the interactions of different types of MUPs remain unclear. Accordingly, this study analyzes four major types of MUPs-gas, electricity, water supply, and drainage-in Panlong and Chenggong, two urban areas representing old and new districts in Kunming, China. A Coupled safety resilience of MUPs evaluation framework (DANP-CSR-MUPs) is developed based on vulnerability, resilience, resistance, and maintenance. The resilience distribution is then mapped, highlighting its spatial characteristics. It was found that (1) the electricity pipeline had the highest coupling weight (0.27) and the water supply the lowest (0.22). Despite the distinct nature of their impacts, the influence of different MUPs was relatively similar, considering potential errors. (2) The new urban area exhibits higher CSR-MUPs than the old urban area, while the old urban area is more exposed to vulnerability risks. (3) The Panlong study area shows a stronger spatial clustering effect (19.68% of the area) with low resilience values, whereas the clustering effect in Chenggong is weaker, with the resilience distribution being stable and evenly spread. This study identifies the potential impact relationships and safety risks within the MUP system and the two distinct MUP resilience patterns in Kunming's new and old urban areas, providing a basis for decision-making to enhance the resilience of municipal infrastructure in urban areas.
UT WOS:001853203700001
ER

PT J
AU Niaki, AA
   Jamil, M
AF Niaki, Ali Akbarzadeh
   Jamil, Mohsin
TI An efficient hydrogen-based water-power strategy to alleviate the number
   of transmission switching within smart grid
DE Transmission switching; Congestion management; Bender's decomposition;
   Water-power system; Uncertainty; Security constrained unit commitment
   (SCUC)
ID ACTING DEMAND RESPONSE; CONGESTION MANAGEMENT; TRANSACTIVE CONTROL; WIND
   POWER; RELIABILITY; SYSTEMS; ENERGY; MODEL
AB The main advantage of Transmission Switching (TS) is decreasing the cost function in a power system. Using TS requires a high number of transmission switching in the system, which can cause some problems in the long run. These problems include decreased lifetime and failure of circuit breakers (CBs), higher repair and maintenance costs, line outage, increased probability of load shedding, and lower reliability of the system. In this paper, congestion management is utilized in the unit commitment problem constrained to the security with the TS to decrease the number of switching. This methodology will resolve the mentioned problems and improve the overall security of the system. Besides, a grid-connected water-power package is suggested to make relaxation for the line congestion which results in the alleviation of the transmission switching. The proposed water-power system is restructured regarding the fuel cell based renewable resource considering the hydrogen tank. Indeed, such a restructured system utilizes the water grid to generate the hydrogen and then power with the aim of linking the electrical grid. Also, on the account of being uncertain of some parameters coming in the electrical grid, an uncertainty-based UT function is addressed to handle uncertainty impacts on the grid's performance. To make awareness-raising, we carry out an outage of the generators as a different contingency scenario of the problem. Finally, the introduced model is testified on two 6-bus and 118-bus grids and solved by Bender's decomposition method. The simulations are performed in GAMS software to confirm the introduced approach effectiveness. Inferred from the results that the proposed strategy can help the grid operator lessen the line congestion up to an acceptable level.
UT WOS:001243340500001
ER

PT J
AU Kang, WH
   Kliese, A
AF Kang, Won-Hee
   Kliese, Alyce
TI A rapid reliability estimation method for directed acyclic lifeline
   networks with statistically dependent components
DE Earthquake hazards; Lifeline network; Non-simulation-based method;
   Statistical correlation; System reliability
ID RECURSIVE DECOMPOSITION ALGORITHM; BINARY DECISION DIAGRAMS;
   SIMULATION-BASED METHOD; SYSTEM RELIABILITY; TERMINAL RELIABILITY;
   GROUND MOTIONS; RISK
AB Lifeline networks, such as transportation, water supply, sewers, telecommunications, and electrical and gas networks, are essential elements for the economic and societal functions of urban areas, but their components are highly susceptible to natural or man-made hazards. In this context, it is essential to provide effective pre-disaster hazard mitigation strategies and prompt post-disaster risk management efforts based on rapid system reliability assessment. This paper proposes a rapid reliability estimation method for node-pair connectivity analysis of lifeline networks especially when the network components are statistically correlated. Recursive procedures are proposed to compound all network nodes until they become a single super node representing the connectivity between the origin and destination nodes. The proposed method is applied to numerical network examples and benchmark interconnected power and water networks in Memphis, Shelby County. The connectivity analysis results show the proposed method's reasonable accuracy and remarkable efficiency as compared to the Monte Carlo simulations. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000331684100007
ER

PT C
AU Perelman, G
   Navon, A
   Housh, M
   Ostfeld, A
AF Perelman, Gal
   Navon, Aviad
   Housh, Mashor
   Ostfeld, Avi
BE Ahmad, S
   Struck, S
   Drummond, C
TI Adjustable Robust Optimization for Integrated Power and Water Systems
   under Uncertainty
ID DEMAND RESPONSE; FLOW
AB Water distribution systems (WDS) and power distribution systems (PDS) are strongly connected and mutually affect each other. Recently, several studies suggested accounting for this dependency to enhance the overall efficiency of the two critical systems. However, in these studies, the uncertainty inherent in the two systems got less attention. Here, we emphasize the uncertainty modeling by using robust optimization (RO) and adjustable robust optimization (ARO) to co-optimize the day-ahead scheduling of an integrated PDS-WDS. In this problem, we consider the uncertainty in both power loads and water demands and its impact on the operational strategies of the coupled system. Using RO and ARO, we can derive the Pareto frontier between operation cost and system reliability. Our results suggest that for high levels of reliability, the ARO outperforms the RO approach, as it can achieve a high level of reliability with lower operation costs.
UT WOS:001587166000090
ER

PT J
AU Stuhlmacher, A
   Mathieu, JL
AF Stuhlmacher, Anna
   Mathieu, Johanna L.
TI Chance-Constrained Water Pumping to Manage Water and Power Demand
   Uncertainty in Distribution Networks
DE Water pumps; Power demand; Cogeneration; Optimization; Real-time
   systems; Pumps; Distribution networks; Power distribution; Distribution
   networks; Chance-constrained (CC) programming; electric power
   distribution networks (PDNs); water distribution networks (WDNs)
ID DISTRIBUTION-SYSTEMS; OPTIMAL OPERATION; SUPPLY NETWORKS; NATURAL-GAS;
   OPTIMIZATION; FLOW; DESIGN
AB Water pumping in drinking water distribution networks (WDNs) can be treated as a flexible load in the power distribution network (PDN). In this article, we formulate an optimization problem to minimize the electricity costs associated with pumping subject to WDN and PDN constraints. In practice, both water and power demands are uncertain and pumps should be scheduled to ensure that pump operation does not violate either networks' constraints for nearly all possible uncertainty realizations. To address this problem, we formulate a chance-constrained (CC) optimization problem that simultaneously determines pumping schedules along with the parameters of real-time control policies that can be used to respond to water and power demand forecast errors. We use approximations and relaxations along with the scenario approach for CC programming to reformulate the optimization problem into a convex deterministic problem. We demonstrate the performance of the approach through case studies and also explore the impact of the relaxations, an approach to improve computational tractability, and tradeoffs associated with the way in which we define the cost of real-time control actions. We find that optimal scheduling and real-time control of water pumping can effectively manage water and power demand uncertainty, meaning water demand is satisfied and both the WDN and PDN operate within their limits; however, the approach is conservative leading to high reliability at high cost.
UT WOS:000562097000015
ER

PT J
AU Balakrishnan, S
   Zhang, ZM
AF Balakrishnan, Srijith
   Zhang, Zhanmin
TI Developing Priority Index for Managing Utility Disruptions in Urban
   Areas with Focus on Cascading and Interdependent Effects
ID SOCIAL VULNERABILITY; INFRASTRUCTURE
AB Unanticipated events such as natural disasters, terrorist attacks, cyber-attacks, and so forth, could cause prolonged disruptions in major utility service networks including, for example, water and electricity, in urban areas. Owing to the presence of complex interdependencies among infrastructure systems in an urban network, the disruption of one system may trigger a chain of events that degrades the proper functioning of several other dependent systems. Consequently, many parts of the city may not have access to multiple utility services and amenities. Identifying the most vulnerable communities exposed to such utility disruptions is key to performing immediate relief operations. In this paper, the concept of Priority Index, introduced as a measure of the susceptibility of communities to the event, is presented to rank urban regions based on the extent of the impact of disruptions (both cascading and interdependent impacts) caused by an event, as well as the social vulnerability of communities. Agent-based models are employed to simulate the consequences of a disruptive event on a semi-realistic urban infrastructure network. Later, the extent of impact on communities is evaluated using the simulation results and the American Community Survey data. The proposed Priority Index could help city administrations and utility service agencies identify the regions in a city that require immediate attention after a disruptive event occurs in the infrastructure network. A case study based on a semi-realistic infrastructure network in Austin, Texas is presented to demonstrate the implementation of the concept of Priority Index and the methodological framework.
UT WOS:000468210800010
ER

PT J
AU Lu, LQ
   Wang, X
   Ouyang, YF
   Roningen, J
   Myers, N
   Calfas, G
AF Lu, Liqun
   Wang, Xin
   Ouyang, Yanfeng
   Roningen, Jeanne
   Myers, Natalie
   Calfas, George
TI Vulnerability of Interdependent Urban Infrastructure Networks:
   Equilibrium after Failure Propagation and Cascading Impacts
ID LOCATION
AB The functionality of modern cities relies heavily on interdependent infrastructure systems such as those for water, power, and transportation. Disruptions often propagate within and across physical infrastructure networks and result in catastrophic consequences. The reaction of communities to disasters (e.g., seeking alternative resource sources) may further transfer and aggravate the burden on surviving infrastructures, which may facilitate cascading secondary disruptions. Hence, a holistic analysis framework that integrates infrastructure interdependencies and human community behaviors is needed to evaluate a city's vulnerability to disruptions and to assess the impact of a disaster. To this end, we develop a game-theoretical equilibrium model in a multilayer infrastructure network to systematically investigate the mutual influence between the infrastructures and the communities. Two types of infrastructure failure patterns are formulated to capture general network interdependencies; network equilibrium is extended into infrastructure and community systems to address redistribution of demand for life-supporting resources; the societal impact of disasters is estimated based on communities' resource demand loss, cost increase, as well as total infrastructure failures. A real-world case study based on Maiduguri, Nigeria, is implemented to demonstrate the proposed model and algorithm, and to reveal insights.
UT WOS:000429321600004
ER

PT J
AU Wang, F
   Magoua, JJ
   Li, N
   Fang, DP
AF Wang, Fei
   Magoua, Joseph Jonathan
   Li, Nan
   Fang, Dongping
TI Assessing the impact of systemic heterogeneity on failure propagation
   across interdependent critical infrastructure systems
DE Interdependent critical infrastructure systems; Failure propagation;
   Systemic heterogeneity; Disaster impact; Earthquake disaster; Power and
   water supply systems
ID VULNERABILITY ANALYSIS; EXTREME EVENTS; NETWORKS; POWER; MODEL;
   RESILIENCE; EARTHQUAKE; SIMULATION; CASCADE
AB The systemic heterogeneity between different critical infrastructure systems (CISs) can significantly influence the failure propagation process across the systems. For instance, when power supply systems are affected by an earthquake, physical damages mainly occur at nodes and seldom occur at links, since the cables are flexible enough to withstand the impacts. Water supply systems on the other hand are prone to experience physical damages at both nodes and links. However, despite the increasing volume of literature that examines failure propagation risks across interdependent CISs, only few studies have accounted for various systemic heterogeneity factors (HFs) and their potential impact on cascading failures. The aim of this study is to reveal and quantify the significance of such impact, for which a four-step approach is introduced. A case study was conducted, which examined the impact of three HFs on failure propagation across two interdependent power and water supply systems in the event of a simulated earthquake. Seven improved models were developed and their respective simulation results were compared. The comparison of simulation results from the baseline model and improved models revealed that the impact of the simulated earthquake disaster on CISs would be significantly misestimated if the HFs were not considered, and that each HF impacted the failure propagation in a different way. The proposed approach and the findings in the case study are expected to uncover the drawbacks in current CISs failure propagation models, and provide a foundation for the development of more reliable failure propagation modeling approaches in future research.
UT WOS:000599652000001
ER

PT J
AU Loggins, RA
   Wallace, WA
AF Loggins, Ryan A.
   Wallace, William A.
TI Rapid Assessment of Hurricane Damage and Disruption to Interdependent
   Civil Infrastructure Systems
DE Data analysis; Network analysis; Infrastructure; Disaster recovery;
   Decision support systems
ID FAILURE; CONSEQUENCES; TRENDS
AB Civil infrastructure systems such as power, water, and communications are critical for the well-being and functioning of citizens, industries, and organizations both under normal and disaster conditions. Infrastructure systems cannot be seen as independent entities because they rely a great deal on each other for services needed for operation. Damage to one system can have cascading effects throughout that system, and throughout all of the systems that rely on it. To obtain a meaningful prediction of disruption, these interdependencies among the systems must be considered. This paper presents two models to predict and analyze the effect that a hurricane can have on the performance of interdependent infrastructure systems. The first model uses a Monte Carlo simulation and statistical methods to predict the damage caused by a hurricane on the systems being considered. The second model applies optimization techniques to determine the cascading effects that the damage has throughout the infrastructure systems considered. A case study was conducted using an artificial interdependent infrastructure data set called "Clarc" County. Examples from this case study show that there is a benefit in considering interdependencies among infrastructure systems when predicting disruptions. In addition, the effect of these interdependencies can be assessed in time to support decision making for restoration of services either during an event or as a training exercise. (C) 2015 American Society of Civil Engineers.
UT WOS:000365130200004
ER

PT J
AU Oikonomou, K
   Mongird, K
   Rice, JS
   Homer, JS
AF Oikonomou, Konstantinos
   Mongird, Kendall
   Rice, Jennie S.
   Homer, Juliet S.
TI Resilience of Interdependent Water and Power Systems: A Literature
   Review and Conceptual Modeling Framework
DE integrated water and power resilience; resilience metrics; modeling
   tools; resilience framework; visualization prototype
ID INFRASTRUCTURE; SUSTAINABILITY; FUTURE
AB As increasing pressures of population growth and climate change arise, water and power systems (WPS) are becoming increasingly interdependent. This interdependency has resulted in an increased potential for cascading failures, whereby the service interruption of one system can propagate to interdependent ones. This paper makes four contributions. First, we present an extensive literature review in the field of integrated water and power resilience, leveraging both institutional and technical literature research landscapes. We compare various modeling approaches used to model interdependent WPS and discuss the different metrics and definitions that are typically employed to quantify and define resilience. Relevant challenges and gaps related to modeling tools and metrics are also discussed, and appropriate recommendations are made. Second, the paper presents a visualization prototype for interdependent WPS to showcase water and power system interdependencies and reveal co-managed resilience strategies that can be used to improve resilience under different types of common threats. Third, we provide a conceptual decision support framework that simultaneously optimizes a portfolio of co-managed resilience strategies in the face of multiple, uncertain threats and addresses WPS interdependencies. Finally, we present future trends regarding digitalization, integrated planning, collaborative governance, and equity needs for building more resilient WPS.
UT WOS:000726424700001
ER

PT J
AU Sütiçen, TC
   Batun, S
   Çelik, M
AF Suticen, Tugce Canbilen
   Batun, Sakine
   Celik, Melih
TI Integrated reinforcement and repair of interdependent infrastructure
   networks under disaster-related uncertainties
DE OR in societal problem analysis; Disaster management; Interdependent
   infrastructures; Stochastic programming; Genetic algorithms
ID MATHEMATICAL FRAMEWORK; ROUTING PROBLEM; DESIGN PROBLEM; RESILIENCE;
   RESTORATION; SYSTEMS; OPTIMIZATION; RELIEF
AB Natural or human-inflicted disasters may cause large-scale disruptions in the services of infrastructure networks including power, water, and telecommunication. Restoring the services of these infrastructures is vital in the aftermath of the disaster, so that search-and-rescue activities, relief transportation, and restoration efforts can be efficiently facilitated. On the other hand, operations of these infrastructures may depend on receiving services from one another, resulting in an interdependent network structure. Consequently, addressing the decisions of network reinforcement before the disaster and the repairs in its aftermath needs to take into account this interdependent structure, as well as the uncertainties arising from the timing, location, and magnitude of the disaster.This paper introduces the Stochastic Interdependent Infrastructure Reinforcement and Repair Problem, which considers the pre-disaster reinforcement of interdependent network components and post-disaster repair scheduling in an integrated manner. In making these decisions, the uncertainty on which network components will be disrupted is incorporated into the problem definition. The problem is modeled using scenario-based two-stage stochastic programming. A heuristic based on a genetic algorithm and partial optimization is proposed to solve realistically-sized instances of the problem. Computational experiments not only show that the heuristic is able to find near-optimal solutions within reasonable times, but also illustrate the ability of the approach to help derive managerial insights.(c) 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000992042900001
ER

PT J
AU Brunner, LG
   Peer, RAM
   Zorn, C
   Paulik, R
   Logan, TM
AF Brunner, L. G.
   Peer, R. A. M.
   Zorn, C.
   Paulik, R.
   Logan, T. M.
TI Understanding cascading risks through real-world interdependent urban
   infrastructure
DE Cascading failures; Interdependent infrastructure; Risk analysis;
   Critical infrastructure; Urban infrastructure; Resilience; Network
   modeling
ID RESILIENCE; SYSTEMS; FRAMEWORK; FAILURE; IMPACTS
AB The prevalence of cascading failures is growing as infrastructure becomes more interdependent and climate change exacerbates more extreme hazards. After such events, the general focus is on the magnitude of direct damage or loss; it is less understood how events trigger failures throughout other infrastructure. In this work, we present a methodology to model direct and indirect impacts from an event for a multi-system network, including interconnected infrastructure and end users. We perform a case study of New Zealand's second largest city, Christchurch, investigating electricity, water supply, and wastewater networks following a range of coastal flooding events and climate change scenarios. For a 10-year average recurrence interval event given no sea-level rise, there is a 216% increase from directly impacted end users to the total number of end users that have lost at least one utility. For the same scenario, this metric is 71%, 129%, and 131% for end users who have lost electricity, water, and wastewater, respectively. The results show a larger estimate of impact on residents and a more geospatially-varied loss of service. This methodology provides insight for utility operators, emergency response, and communities on node criticality, areas of impact, and resource requirements after an event occurs.
UT WOS:001086031700001
ER

PT J
AU Shi, QX
   Yan, YL
   Liu, WX
   Zeng, B
   Wang, ZN
   Li, FX
AF Shi, Qingxin
   Yan, Yilu
   Liu, Wenxia
   Zeng, Bo
   Wang, Zhuning
   Li, Fangxing
TI Resilience Assessment of Urban Power Network Considering Multi-Stage
   Electrical-Water Fault Propagation
DE Water resources; Resilience; Substations; Pipelines; Water pumps;
   Indexes; High-voltage techniques; Resilience assessment; urban power
   network; water distribution network; fault propagation; extreme event
ID DISTRIBUTION-SYSTEMS; UNCERTAINTY
AB Multi-voltage-level urban power network (UPN) is the basis for other infrastructure networks, especially water distribution network (WDN). Compared with other networks, UPN is more vulnerable to extreme events, including extreme weather events and deliberate attacks. The affection of UPN fault on WDN displays complex multi-stage characteristics. This paper first proposes a comprehensive tri-stage model of electrical-water fault propagation, including the electrical-water network connection model, the reduced-order hydraulic network model, and the water supply model of customers. Second, a scenario selection method and two resilience assessment indices are proposed. The indices measure the resistive capability of UPN considering the fault propagation effect. Finally, the proposed model and assessment method are verified by a simplified real-world urban power and water network based on the selected typical fault scenarios. The resilience assessment method helps electrical utilities to identify critical components of UPN and to make optimal decisions for long-term component hardening and short-term post-disaster restoration.
UT WOS:001512570800032
ER

PT J
AU Dueñas-Osorio, L
   Craig, JI
   Goodno, BJ
AF Duenas-Osorio, Leonardo
   Craig, James I.
   Goodno, Barry J.
TI Seismic response of critical interdependent networks
DE interdependent networks; seismic fragility; infrastructure systems;
   cascading failures; network functionality; seismic mitigation
ID MODEL
AB During the last decade, critical infrastructure systems such as electric power, water distribution, transportation and telecommunications have been stressed by significant natural hazards and human errors leading to malfunction. Earthquakes, blackouts and satellite failures have evidenced the vulnerability of these growing networked systems threatening the continuity of the United States' economy. The potential for malicious perturbations to these systems is also an important current concern. However, the underlying susceptibility of these networks to disruptive events is in large part due to the increasingly complex pattern of interdependencies that tie these civil infrastructures together. This paper mainly investigates the effect of seismic disruptions on the performance of real interdependent networks. Maintenance-induced malfunctions and coordinated attacks are also studied for completeness. Several degrees of interconnectedness are explored. Interdependent network fragility curves are introduced to display the effect of these different strengths of coupling. Characterization of the performance displayed by the networks is utilized to propose mitigation actions and study propagation of their effects. It is shown that minimal strategic interventions propagated through the network can generate a more resilient interdependent entity. Copyright (C) 2006 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
UT WOS:000243695300008
ER

PT J
AU Najafi, J
   Peiravi, A
   Anvari-Moghaddam, A
   Guerrero, JM
AF Najafi, Javad
   Peiravi, Ali
   Anvari-Moghaddam, Amjad
   Guerrero, Josep M.
TI Resilience improvement planning of power-water distribution systems with
   multiple microgrids against hurricanes using clean strategies
DE Microgrids; Resilience improvement planning; Stochastic linear
   programming; Power network; Water network
ID ENERGY SYSTEM; RESOURCES; EXTREME; RECONFIGURATION; INFRASTRUCTURE
AB This paper proposes a comprehensive planning framework including a main problem and two sub-problems to enhance the resilience of power distribution network (PDN) and water distribution network (WDN) with multiple microgrids against hurricanes. The main problem which is formulated in stochastic programming aims to minimize the investment cost of resilience improvement strategies and the expected inaccessibility values of loads to power and water under hurricanes. Line hardening in PDN, upgrading the energy storage size in microgrids and water tanks in WDN are considered as three clean candidate strategies. In analyzing each scenario of the main problem, the microgrids which are connected to the PDN are modeled as emergency sources through the first stochastic sub -problem that can restore disconnected loads and water pumps. Water pumps as critical loads are equipped with emergency generators with limited fuel capacity. If there are some water pumps which cannot be restored in each scenario of the main problem, their emergency generators will be scheduled with the second subproblem of the model. The proposed model is tested on the modified IEEE 33-bus PDN with multiple microgrids and a designed WDN, and the effectiveness of the proposed method is validated accordingly. (C) 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000466253100011
ER

PT J
AU Hua, ZH
   Cao, YP
   Zhou, B
   Or, SW
   Yang, F
   Li, CB
   Wang, ZQ
   Sun, YX
   Yu, XB
AF Hua, Zhihao
   Cao, Yingping
   Zhou, Bin
   Or, Siu Wing
   Yang, Fan
   Li, Canbing
   Wang, Ziqiang
   Sun, Yuexin
   Yu, Xiangbin
TI Hyperbolic PDE-constrained decision-dependent robust planning of
   hydrogen energy storage systems for resilient electricity-water-gas
   nexus
DE Water-energy nexus; Distribution network; Hydrogen energy storage
   system; PDE-constrained optimization; Decision-dependent uncertainty;
   Robust planning
ID NETWORKS; POWER; RELAXATIONS; CHAIN
AB This paper proposes a decision-dependent robust planning method for hydrogen energy storage systems (HESSs) to enhance the resilience of the electricity-water-gas nexus (EWGN) under exogenous and endogenous uncer tainties. In this method, the coordinated operations of power distribution networks, water distribution networks (WDNs), and gas distribution networks (GDNs), enhanced by HESSs, are incorporated to mitigate multi-energy load shedding. Moreover, hyperbolic partial differential equations (HPDEs) are employed to accurately represent the slow dynamics of water and gas pipeline flows in WDNs and GDNs, and then an HPDE-constrained HESS planning model is formulated to optimize the siting and sizing of HESSs. A two-stage stochastic-robust optimiza tion strategy is developed to address exogenous and endogenous uncertainties so that the resulting HESS plan can hedge against the worst-case realization of decision-dependent hydrogen fuel cell vehicle refueling demand within each probabilistic exogenous scenario. Furthermore, a tailored solution algorithm, combining numerical discretization, piecewise linear relaxations, and parametric column-and-constraint generation, is devised to han dle the proposed HPDE-constrained HESS planning model. Comparative studies show that the proposed method reduces the total load shedding cost by 81.66% compared with the case without HESS planning, and achieves a further 33.33% improvement in investment return over conventional planning methods without considering endogenous uncertainties.
UT WOS:001826903100001
ER

PT J
AU Chen, L
   Zheng, Y
   Su, BD
   Li, MS
   Li, YF
   Chen, HK
AF Chen, Lei
   Zheng, Yi
   Su, Bude
   Li, Musi
   Li, Yifei
   Chen, Hongkun
TI Optimal configuration of battery energy storage for resilience
   enhancement in multi-energy-coupled active distribution networks against
   typhoon events
DE Multi-energy coupled active distribution networks; Resilience
   enhancement; Optimal configuration; Battery energy storage devices;
   Fault recovery
ID HARMONY SEARCH ALGORITHM; HEAT; SYSTEM
AB With the growing integration of various energy systems, multi-energy coupled active distribution networks (MECADNs) that combine electricity, water, gas, and heat have become essential infrastructure for ensuring a reliable energy supply. Enhancing the resilience of MECADNs against typhoon disasters is therefore of great significance. This paper proposes an optimal configuration method for battery energy storage devices (BESDs) to enhance the resilience of MECADNs. Based on a dynamic model of multi-energy coupled networks, a two-layer optimization model is developed. The inner-layer focuses on the operational optimization of active distribution networks (ADNs), considering multi-energy effects, while the outer-layer targets the optimal configuration of BESDs. Additionally, a hybrid intelligent algorithm combining particle swarm optimization (PSO) and snow ablation optimizer (SAO) is designed to improve solution efficiency and accuracy. The proposed method is validated through cross-verification in small- and large-scale MECADNs based on modified IEEE 33-node and 118-node systems, integrating theoretical analysis, numerical simulation, and resilience index quantification. The main conclusions are as follows: (1) The two-layer optimization model exhibits excellent scalability across system scales, and the SAO-PSO hybrid algorithm outperforms standalone PSO/SAO in both speed and accuracy, economically reducing BESDs configuration cost in the 33-node and 118-node systems. (2) Under multi-stage typhoon fault scenarios, the method realizes simultaneous optimization of BESDs configuration and MECADNs operation, coordinating electricity-gas-water-heat subsystems to smooth load fluctuations and stabilize state parameters. (3) It significantly enhances system resilience: the average load recovery rate reaches 99.3 % in the 33-node system and rises from 78.3 % to 97.8 % in the 118-node system; resilience scores increase from 42.00 to 43.42 for small-scale MECADNs and 58.52 to 60.51 for large-scale MECADNs, with the large-scale networks showing a 40.1 % higher gain in score increment.
UT WOS:001665895500001
ER

PT C
AU Yang, YS
   Li, ZM
   Zhang, GX
   Costa, A
   Lo, EY
AF Yang, Yesen
   Li, Zhengmao
   Zhang, Guangxiao
   Costa, Alberto
   Lo, Edmond Y.
GP IEEE
TI Enhancing Resilience of Reconfigurable Power-Water Systems with Mobile
   Distributed Generators and High-Proportional Renewables
DE Resilience; power-water system; reconfiguration; high-proportional
   renewables; mobile distributed generators
AB The intertwined interdependencies existing in power-water systems (PWS) increase the risk of cascading failures during post-interruption scenarios and affect the overall resiliency. Towards a more resilient operation of damaged PWS, this paper presents a resilience enhancement methodology to improve serviceability with mobile distributed generators (MDGs) and high-proportional renewables (HPR). First, the PWS is comprehensively modeled with component mechanisms and flow constraints. The interdependencies, including the power needs for water components, are modeled at component level. Second, various resources, such as extensively installed solar HPR units and MDGs, are coordinated to supply damaged PWS and reduce unsupplied loads. Reconfigurability of power distribution networks is incorporated in the proposed method. It is to adjust PDN topology by coordinating the behavior of switches and leverage HPR and MDG for optimally allocating energy. Third, the model and enhancement measures are formulated into mixed-inter linear programming to facilitate efficient solving. The developed method is applied to a benchmark PWS with 33 power buses and 25 water nodes. The simulation results demonstrate the effectiveness of our method.
UT WOS:001315932500323
ER

PT J
AU Hernandez-Fajardo, I
   Dueñas-Osorio, L
AF Hernandez-Fajardo, Isaac
   Duenas-Osorio, Leonardo
TI Sequential Propagation of Seismic Fragility across Interdependent
   Lifeline Systems
ID INFRASTRUCTURE; RELIABILITY; NETWORK
AB Realistic models of service networks must consider the evolution of interactions with external systems to evaluate emergent response effects on individual network performance. This paper introduces a new dynamic methodology for the assessment of systemic fragility propagation across interdependent networks subjected to seismic action that improves existing static methodologies. Interdependencies are discrete, unidirectional relationships between elements of distinct networks, which are able to influence response evolution from transient to steady-state stages. Comparisons of systemic fragility curves results for isolated and interdependent power and water networks display the importance of interdependence strength and density properties. For the test water network, inter-systemic failure propagation increases its connectivity loss by up to 24%, while high interdependence strengths make the median fragility rise up to 56.2%. In contrast, reductions of interdependence density improve the median water fragility up to 81.7%. Insights obtained from this model, and its associated sequential fragility algorithm, reveal complex coupling patterns and interdependence-based mitigation strategies that are essential for lifeline system management. [DOI: 10.1193/1.3544052]
UT WOS:000208675900001
ER

PT J
AU Najafi, J
   Peiravi, A
   Anvari-Moghaddam, A
AF Najafi, Javad
   Peiravi, Ali
   Anvari-Moghaddam, Amjad
TI Enhancing Integrated Power and Water Distribution Networks Seismic
   Resilience Leveraging Microgrids
DE earthquake; power distribution network; resilience improvement planning;
   water distribution network; microgrid
ID DISTRIBUTION-SYSTEMS; DESIGN
AB An earthquake, as one of the natural disasters, can damage vital infrastructures including the power distribution network (PDN) and water distribution network (WDN). The dependency of WDN on PDN is the other challenge that can be highlighted after the earthquake. In this paper, the resilience improvement planning of integrated PDN and WDN against earthquakes is solved through stochastic programming. Power lines and substation hardening in PDN and water pipes rehabilitation with better material are the candidate strategies to minimize the expected inaccessibility value of loads to power and water as the resilience index and to minimize the cost of strategies. The proposed model is tested on the modified IEEE 33-bus PDN with a designed WDN and its performance is evaluated under different cases where the impacts of using distributed generations (DG) in PDN, equipping the water pumps to back-up generators, and the value of loads accessibility to water on the system resilience are investigated.
UT WOS:000523751400014
ER

PT J
AU Magoua, JJ
   Wang, F
   Li, N
AF Magoua, Joseph Jonathan
   Wang, Fei
   Li, Nan
TI High level architecture-based framework for modeling interdependent
   critical infrastructure systems
DE Critical infrastructure system; High level architecture; Co-simulation;
   Interoperability; Interdependency; Domain knowledge; Systemic
   heterogeneity
ID SIMULATION; HLA; INTEROPERABILITY; RESILIENCE; DESIGN; WATER; POWER
AB Interdependencies among urban critical infrastructure systems (CISs) significantly impact the reliability and performance of CISs and the resilience of modern societies. Although several approaches exist for modeling interdependent CISs and studying their behavior, models developed in previous studies often fail to incorporate CIS domain knowledge, capture systemic heterogeneities among the CISs, and accurately model CISs interdependencies. Consequently, existing models have a limited ability to simulate interdependent CISs with sufficient detail and accuracy. To address these limitations, this study proposes a high-level architecture (HLA)-based framework for modeling interdependent CISs that can leverage and integrate well-tested practices, knowledge, data and simulation tools accumulated over years of wide usage in various CIS domains. The framework provides a methodology for co-simulating heterogeneous fine-grained CIS domain-specific models and modeling complex interactions between them and with their external environments, hence reproducing with high fidelity the complex coupled systems. A case study of two interdependent power and water systems was conducted, which demonstrated the efficacy of the proposed framework. Simulation results revealed that the HLA-based CISs model could capture the heterogeneous behaviors of the CISs and reveal a variety of failure-induced system vulnerabilities and feedback loops which may not be observable when using other existing modeling approaches.
UT WOS:000792917100002
ER

PT J
AU Balakrishnan, S
   Jin, LWC
   Cassottana, B
   Costa, A
   Sansavini, G
AF Balakrishnan, Srijith
   Jin, Lawrence
   Cassottana, Beatrice
   Costa, Alberto
   Sansavini, Giovanni
TI Developing resilience pathways for interdependent infrastructure
   networks: A simulation-based approach with consideration to risk
   preferences of decision-makers
DE Infrastructure simulation; Interdependencies; High-impact
   low-probability; Cumulative prospect theory; Resilience
ID PROSPECT-THEORY; SEISMIC RESILIENCE; FLOOD; INVESTMENTS
AB In this study, we propose a methodological framework to identify and evaluate cost-effective pathways for enhancing resilience in large-scale interdependent infrastructure systems, considering decision-makers' risk preferences. We focus on understanding how decision-makers with varying risk preferences perceive the benefits from infrastructure resilience investments and compare them with upfront costs in the context of high-impact low-probability (HILP) events. First, we compute the costs of interventions as the sum of their capital costs and maintenance costs. The benefits of the interventions include the reduction in physical damage costs and business disruption losses resulting from the improved resilience of the network. In the final stage, we develop statistical models to predict the perceived net benefits of different network resilience configurations in power, water, and transport networks. These models are employed in an optimization framework to identify optimal resilience investment pathways. By incorporating Cumulative Prospect Theory (CPT) in the optimization framework, we show that decision-makers who assign higher weights to low probability events tend to allocate more resources towards post-disaster recovery strategies leading to increased resilience against HILP events, like earthquakes. We illustrate the methodology using a case study of the interdependent infrastructure network in Shelby County, Tennessee.
UT WOS:001317926000001
ER

PT J
AU Balakrishnan, S
   Cassottana, B
   Verma, A
AF Balakrishnan, Srijith
   Cassottana, Beatrice
   Verma, Arun
TI Application of clustering algorithms for dimensionality reduction in
   infrastructure resilience prediction models
DE High-dimensionality; infrastructure resilience; interdependencies;
   machine learning; network analysis; network clustering; urban simulation
ID SEISMIC RESILIENCE; NETWORK; FRAMEWORK; POWER
AB Recent studies increasingly adopt simulation-based machine learning (ML) models to analyse critical infrastructure system resilience. For realistic applications, these ML models consider the component-level characteristics that influence the network response during emergencies. However, such an approach could result in a large number of features and cause ML models to suffer from the 'curse of dimensionality'. A clustering-based method is presented that simultaneously minimises the problem of high-dimensionality and improves the prediction accuracy of ML models developed for resilience analysis in large-scale interdependent infrastructure networks. The methodology has three parts: (a) generation of simulation dataset, (b) network component clustering, and (c) dimensionality reduction and development of prediction models. First, an interdependent infrastructure simulation model simulates the network-wide consequences of various disruptive events. The component-level features are extracted from the simulated data. Next, clustering algorithms are used to derive the cluster-level features by grouping component-level features based on their topological and functional characteristics. Finally, ML algorithms are used to develop models that predict the network-wide impacts of disruptive events using the cluster-level features. The applicability of the method is demonstrated using an interdependent power-water-transport testbed. The proposed method can be used to develop decision-support tools for post-disaster recovery of infrastructure networks.
UT WOS:001251346800001
ER

PT C
AU Schoonenberg, WCH
   Farid, AM
AF Schoonenberg, Wester C. H.
   Farid, Amro M.
GP IEEE
TI Modeling Smart Cities with Hetero-functional Graph Theory
DE Hetero-functional Graph Theory; Infrastructure; Smart City; Axiomatic
   Design; Engineering Systems
ID SYSTEM RECONFIGURATION; AXIOMATIC DESIGN
AB In the 21st century, urbanization as a mega-trend will create many megacities. These highly dense, large population centers will have to efficiently deliver essential services including, energy, water, mobility, manufactured goods, and healthcare. While these services may be treated independently, they are in reality interdependent, especially as the need for efficient resource utilization, and consequently integration. This presents a formidable engineering challenge as the modeling foundations for these services have traditionally been discipline specific. Furthermore, efforts to integrate these modeling foundations have often adopted simplifying constraints which have limited applicability to the emerging challenge of smart cities. This paper collates an emerging "hetero-functional graph theory" for potential application to integrated smart city infrastructure models. It has been recently demonstrated in several application domains. The paper concludes with the construction of a hetero-functional graph for a smart city model consisting of an integrated electricity, water, and transportation system. Such a graph has the potential for dynamic modeling, resilience analysis, and integrated decision-making.
UT WOS:000427598701113
ER

PT J
AU Hernandez-Fajardo, I
   Dueñas-Osorio, L
AF Hernandez-Fajardo, Isaac
   Duenas-Osorio, Leonardo
TI Probabilistic study of cascading failures in complex interdependent
   lifeline systems
DE Lifeline Systems; Interdependence; Cascading failures; Local redundancy;
   Fragility propagation; Seismic hazard; Random failures
ID RELIABILITY; PROPAGATION; EARTHQUAKE; FRAGILITY; NETWORKS
AB The internal complexity of lifeline systems and their standing interdependencies can operate in conjunction to amplify the negative effects of external disruptions. This paper introduces a simulation-based methodology to evaluate the joint impact of interdependence, component fragilities, and cascading failures in systemic fragility estimates. The proposed strategy uses a graph model of interdependent networks, an enhanced betweenness centrality for cascading failures approximation, and an interdependence model accounting for coupling uncertainty in the simulation of damage propagation for probabilistic performance assessment. This methodology is illustrated through its application to a realistic set of power and water networks subjected to earthquake scenarios and random failures. Test case results reveal two key insights: (1) the intensity of a perturbation influences interdependent systemic fragility by shaping the magnitudes of initial component damage and, sometimes counter-intuitively, the subsequent interdependence effects and (2) increasing local redundancy mitigates the effects of interdependence on systemic performance, but such intervention is incapable of eliminating interdependent effects completely. The previous insights provide basic guidelines for the design of systemic retrofitting policies. Additionally, the limitations of local capacity redundancy as a fragility control measure highlight the need for a critical assessment of intervention strategies in distributed infrastructure networks. Future work will assess the fragility-reduction efficiency of strategies involving informed manipulation of individual systemic topologies and the interdependence interfaces connecting them. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
UT WOS:000314203600027
ER

PT C
AU Fang, YP
   Zio, E
AF Fang, Yiping
   Zio, Enrico
GP IEEE
TI Optimizing the Resilience of Interdependent Infrastructure Systems
   against Intentional Attacks
DE resilience; intentional attacks; interdependent critical
   infrastructures; defender-attacker-defender model; optimization
AB This paper develops a defender-attacker-defender (DAD) model for the resilience optimization of interdependent critical infrastructures (CIs) against intentional at-tacks. In the outer level, the system defender identifies the components to be hardened in order to reduce the damage associated with the worst case attack. In the middle level, the attacker disrupts the system to inflict maximum damage. In the inner level, the defender responds to the attack to minimize the consequence of the attack by optimal operation of the system. A recently developed decomposition-based two-layer cutting plane algorithm is adopted to solve the proposed model. A case of interdependent power and water systems is presented to show the proposed model
UT WOS:000426453100011
ER

PT J
AU Rathnayaka, B
   Robert, D
   Adikariwattage, V
   Siriwardana, C
   Kuligowski, E
   Setunge, S
   Amaratunga, D
AF Rathnayaka, Bawantha
   Robert, Dilan
   Adikariwattage, Varuna
   Siriwardana, Chandana
   Kuligowski, Erica
   Setunge, Sujeeva
   Amaratunga, Dilanthi
TI Novel methodology for resilience assessment of critical infrastructure
   considering the interdependencies: A case study in water, transportation
   and electricity sector
DE Resilience assessment; Critical Infrastructures; Dynamic Bayesian
   Network; Interdependencies; Functionality curve
ID DYNAMIC BAYESIAN NETWORK; CROSS-VALIDATION; CLASSICAL-MODEL; SYSTEMS;
   PROTECTION; SIMULATION; FRAMEWORK; STATE
AB Critical Infrastructures (CI) are vital for societal and economic stability, yet their resilience against disasters remains inadequately understood with the increasing interdependencies among the CIs. A better understanding of these interdependencies and the dynamic nature of CI functionalities is crucial for advancing disaster resilience assessment within engineering systems. This paper introduces a novel approach using a Dynamic Bayesian Network (DBN) to assess resilience in interdependent CI systems. The DBN method enables a probabilistic evaluation of system resilience by incorporating interdependencies and capturing the temporal dynamics of system capacities. This approach offers a more detailed perspective on resilience by modelling system functionality using expected values of different functionality states over time. Using a case study in Sri Lankan electricity, water distribution, and road infrastructure sectors and 34 experts, this study examines the complex network of CIs. It demonstrates the applicability of the proposed methodology. P-values of the Chi-Square test performed between the variation of model-predicted resilience and expert assessments are significantly less than 0.05, confirming the model's validity. Additionally, this study explores the expansion of the methodology for resilience assessment under multiple hazards, emphasizing its real-world effectiveness. The findings highlight the efficacy of the proposed methodology and its potential to assist asset managers, owners, and decision-makers in informed resilience planning and optimization strategies. This comprehensive approach fills critical gaps in existing methodologies, offering a robust framework for assessing CI resilience in a dynamic and systematic nature.
UT WOS:001438529700001
ER

PT C
AU Georgiou, P
   Leventis, C
   Isaia, P
   Kyriakou, M
   Venkatasubramanian, B
   Vrachimis, S
   Laoudias, C
   Eliades, D
   Panteli, M
AF Georgiou, Panayiotis
   Leventis, Christophoros
   Isaia, Philippos
   Kyriakou, Marios
   Venkatasubramanian, Balaji
   Vrachimis, Stelios
   Laoudias, Christos
   Eliades, Demetrios
   Panteli, Mathaios
GP IEEE
TI CyDT: The Cyprus Digital Twin for Resilient Cities and Robust Critical
   Infrastructure Systems
DE Digital Twin; Critical Infrastructures; Resilience
AB Modern smart cities now place top priority on keeping Critical Infrastructure Systems (CIS) like power grids, water networks, transportation systems, and telecommunications both resilient and highly efficient. Recent advances in Digital Twin (DT) technology have made it an attractive tool for managing these systems by generating dynamic, data-driven virtual models of cyber-physical assets and their interconnections. Despite widespread adoption of DTs across many industries, there is no risk-based, scenario-driven DT framework readily available to researchers, smart city operators, and CIS managers for bolstering urban resilience. To fill this gap, we present the Cyprus Digital Twin (CyDT), a one-of-a-kind digital platform designed to manage and optimize interdependent CIS. We detail CyDT's modular architecture outlining its principal components and spotlighting its novel features and capabilities and demonstrate its adaptability and effectiveness in real-life use cases that conduct risk-based resilience analyses of power and water systems.
UT WOS:001803348300073
ER

PT J
AU Perelman, G
   Shmaya, T
   Navon, A
   Vrachimis, S
   Panteli, M
   Eliades, DG
   Ostfeld, A
AF Perelman, Gal
   Shmaya, Tomer
   Navon, Aviad
   Vrachimis, Stelios
   Panteli, Mathaios
   Eliades, Demetrios G.
   Ostfeld, Avi
TI Coordinated operational optimization of water and power systems under
   emergency conditions
DE Water-energy nexus; Off-Grid; Microgrid; Coordinated optimization;
   Resilience; Emergency operation
ID DEMAND RESPONSE; ROBUST OPTIMIZATION; RESILIENCE; STRATEGIES; NETWORKS
AB This research addresses the integrated management of Water Distribution Systems (WDS) and Power Distribution Systems (PDS) to enhance operational efficiency and resilience during extreme scenarios. Traditionally, these systems are operated independently, leading to sub-optimal performance. Alternatively, some studies have proposed a joint operation of WDS and PDS, assuming that decisions are made simultaneously by a single decision-maker, which is impractical. We propose a novel emergency control method that relies on sparse communication between WDS and PDS operators, aiming to minimize load shedding (LS) in the PDS by strategically managing power demand in the interconnected WDS. The results show that the proposed coordinated approach has similar performance to a full cooperation approach between the two systems while requiring only minimal information exchange. Our approach demonstrates the potential of limited yet targeted information exchange, fostering cross-sectoral collaboration to maintain service continuity under extreme conditions, and underscores the critical role of integrated management in ensuring the resilience of interconnected infrastructure systems.
UT WOS:001426264200001
ER

PT C
AU Putri, S
   Moazeni, F
   Khazaei, J
AF Putri, Saskia
   Moazeni, Faegheh
   Khazaei, Javad
GP IEEE
TI Operational Resilience Enhancement of Water-Energy Microgrids via
   ReserveMax Nonlinear Model Predictive Control
DE Water-energy nexus; water distribution system; grid-connected microgrid;
   power reserve; demand response.
AB This paper presents a formulation of simultaneous control and model for an integrated water-energy microgrid system, enhancing the power reserve through optimal pump scheduling and power dispatch. Leveraging the predictive capability of nonlinear model predictive control (NMPC), the closed-loop control framework maximizes power reserve in a safe and cost-effective manner for water distribution systems (WDS) and grid-tied microgrids (MG). To evaluate system resilience, two performance metrics are introduced: the Energy Reserve Index (ERI), which quantifies the system's ability to meet critical power demands, and the Stored Resource Availability Index (SRAI), which assesses long-term resource sufficiency by measuring stored water and energy reserves relative to safety thresholds. Despite seasonal variations in water demand and renewable generation, the proposed NMPC ensures optimal pump flow rates and power dispatch, consistently meeting water and power demands while satisfying operational constraints and power reserves. Compared to an economic dispatch open-loop strategy, the proposed control achieves 20% cost reduction while simultaneously increasing energy and water reserves by 30% and 20%, respectively, demonstrating significant improvements in system performance and resilience.
UT WOS:001719901600431
ER

PT J
AU Yin, YZ
   Val, DV
   Zou, QP
   Yurchenko, D
AF Yin, Yunzhu
   Val, Dimitri V.
   Zou, Qingping
   Yurchenko, Daniil
TI Resilience of Critical Infrastructure Systems to Floods: A Coupled
   Probabilistic Network Flow and LISFLOOD-FP Model
DE infrastructure networks; urban flood; urban resilience; climate changes;
   sea level rise; natural hazard; flood modelling; LISFLOOD-FP; network
   flow model; cascading effects
ID SEA-LEVEL RISE; INTERDEPENDENT INFRASTRUCTURES; STORM-SURGE; TIDE-SURGE;
   COASTAL; MANAGEMENT; SIMULATION; EVENTS; HAZARD; IMPACT
AB In this paper, a network-flow model was constructed to simulate the performance of interdependent critical infrastructure systems during flood hazards, when there is shortage of commodities such as electrical power and water. The model enabled us to control the distribution of commodities among different consumers whose demand cannot be fully met. Incorporating time-variance in the model allowed for evaluating the time evolution of the functional level of the infrastructure systems and quantifying their resilience. As a demonstration of the model's capability, the network model was coupled with a raster-based hydraulic flooding model in the way of Monte Carlo simulations. It was then used to investigate the cascading effects of flood-related failures of individual infrastructure assets on the performance of the critical infrastructure systems of a coastal community under different flooding scenarios and future climate impacts. The coupled modelling framework is essential for correctly assessing the interdependences and cascading effects in the infrastructure systems in the case of flood hazards. While in the considered example, the extent of inundation becomes less severe with a changing climate, the risk to infrastructure does not recede because of the cascading effects. This behaviour could not be captured by the flood model alone.
UT WOS:000771203400001
ER

EF
